---
description: This page describes known issues with F5 and how to fix them.
---

# F5

## Commands Containing `bash` Require Admin Rights

**Known affected software versions:** all

**Result:** Some commands require bash access - this needs [administrative permissions](https://api-u.f5.com/support/kb-articles/K10272?pdf). Otherwise they cannot be executed.
- `run util bash -c uptime` - for device uptime
- `run util bash -c "ntpq -np"` - for NTP peer server communications
- `run util bash -c "tmsh list sys snmp all-properties"` - for SNMP information
- `run util bash -c "clsh tmsh show sys hardware"` - for hardware information, admin access is needed when cluster is present to list multiple blades.

## Long Timeout for `show ltm virtual details` Command

**Known affected software versions:** all

**Description:** The `show ltm virtual details` command may hang for a
significant period before sending any response back to the user, which can cause
the discovery process to stop.

**Result:** Some F5 devices might not be discovered.

**Fix:** In the CLI, test the duration required to retrieve data for this
command. Update the
[network device session timeout](../../../IP_Fabric_Settings/Discovery_and_Snapshots/Discovery_Settings/advanced_cli.md)
accordingly.

## Long or Infinite Discovery Due to `restjavad` Frequent Restarts Because of Insufficient Memory

**Affected product:** BIG-IP TMOS

**Known affected software versions**: See the
[F5 documentation](https://cdn.f5.com/product/bugtracker/ID776393.html).

**Description:** The `show ltm virtual details` command may cause the
`restjavad` daemon on F5 to restart frequently due to insufficient memory,
resulting in long or infinite discovery.

**Result:** Some F5 devices might not be discovered.

**Fix:** Increase the memory allocated for the `restjavad` process. See
[F5 Bug ID 776393](https://cdn.f5.com/product/bugtracker/ID776393.html).

## SNMP Passphrases Appear to Change Each Time During Configuration Backup

**Affected versions:** all versions below `14.1.0`

**Description:** When SNMPv3 users are configured with authentication and
privacy passwords, the encrypted password displayed in TMSH appear to change
each time they are displayed. The same applies when retrieving the configuration
file using the `cd /;show running-config recursive` command.

**Environment:**

- TMSH
- SNMPv3
- Encrypted passwords

**Result:** IP Fabric considers every new F5 configuration file as `changed`.

**Fix:** Upgrade to a fixed version as noted in
[Bug ID 532181](https://cdn.f5.com/product/bugtracker/ID532181.html).

## F5 Device Fails To Be Discovered Due to `ASM out of memory error` 

**Affected versions:** all

**Description:** When IP Fabric issues the `show ltm virtual recursive` command,
`Error Message: ASM out of memory error: event code X242/X260 Exceeded maximum
memory assigned for XML/JSON processing` appears, which halts the discovery
process for the device.

**Environment:**

- ASM Policy configured to process XML Requests
- XML requests are not processed
- At the time of the issue, logs like `Cannot allocate x more bytes for XML
  parser. current memory size y (in bytes)` appear in `/var/log/ts/bd.log` and
  logs like `ASM out of memory error: event code X242/X260 Exceeded maximum
  memory assigned for XML/JSON processing` appear in `/var/log/asm`

**Result:** IP Fabric fails to discover the device.

**Fix:** Mitigation steps can be found on F5's page
[K22526837](https://my.f5.com/manage/s/article/K22526837).

## `Disk partition shared has only x % free` Message Causes Infinite Discovery

**Affected versions:** all

**Description:** During discovery, if the device's disk is full, it issues a
syslog message to the shell every 3 minutes, but the default timeout for
discovery is 5 minutes. This causes the discovery process to never finish.

**Environment:**

- Disk space
- High utilization

**Result:** IP Fabric discovery never finishes.

**Fix:** Mitigation steps can be found on F5's page
[K15485103](https://my.f5.com/manage/s/article/K15485103).
