---
description: In this section, you can find the release notes for v6.1 releases.
---

# IP Fabric v6.1 (Burlap)

--8<-- "snippets/upgrade_version_policy.md"

--8<-- "snippets/clear_browser_cache.md"

## v6.1.1 (March 9th, 2023)

```shell
SHA256 (ipfabric-6-1-1+0.qcow2) = adec5400c7c44adb05cca7b5efff603cc05e0520f1c1e48b7459c6a66d10a6d9
MD5 (ipfabric-6-1-1+0.qcow2) = 4ff2faac23a805d5eb78003c0747a6e0
SHA256 (ipfabric-6-1-1+0.ova) = db3b8bea71bf9055fc709be4ca4fc0a9cd612e21bcf1505ae3a4f07125774684
MD5 (ipfabric-6-1-1+0.ova) = ba97b2e11638316880954551df1ed85b
SHA256 (ipfabric-update-6_1_1+0.tar.gz.sig) = 6ff25b1afd03d9776a910b5fb4f9985aca521dbad613764c6d591cecce0cb629
MD5(ipfabric-update-6_1_1+0.tar.gz.sig) = 60a744a3859812d34ccb107ed0e6ee6a
```

For the list of delivered tickets, please consult the [Low-Level Release Notes for 6.1.1](../release_notes_low-level/6.x/6.1.x/6.1.1.md).

### Bug Fixes

- Issue of switching into FortiGate VDOM fixed
- Speed of Checkpoint discovery optimized -- parallel load of API data enabled and duplicate requests eliminated
- Cisco `show flow monitor` command parsing refactored to prevent an issue of a too high regular expression backtracking

## v6.1.0 (February 21st, 2023)

```shell
SHA256 (ipfabric-6-1-0+12-latest.qcow2) = ebbd30d57419b1dae9589cd927c76d35a5822d29210642db6e4dd7e81a03ce90
MD5 (ipfabric-6-1-0+12-latest.qcow2) = 35b0fba9be9b70626c99d98c7570e230
SHA256 (ipfabric-6-1-0+12-latest.ova) = de385da7914759cd9bd3f43215aa4d1ed2e9354a774cbbcd89630c7026e46a53
MD5 (ipfabric-6-1-0+12-latest.ova) = dd8433e782876263ed54a44789bfb0db
SHA256 (ipfabric-update-6_1_0+12.tar.gz.sig) = e93862fe12af5c15e105631fa82d7512aa97afa92fcb406965f33472bc97ab11
MD5(ipfabric-update-6_1_0+12.tar.gz.sig) = 593a4b885d12dfb88bca31b57e4c2165
```

For the list of delivered tickets, please consult the [Low-Level Release Notes for 6.1.0](../release_notes_low-level/6.x/6.1.x/6.1.0.md).

### Upgrade Notices

- Upgrade to `v6.1` will break custom SSO integrations and will require a change to the `/etc/ipf-dex.yaml` file. Simply replace the `v6.0` in this file with `v6.1` and then run `systemctl restart ipf-dex`. If you would like assistance please contact your Solution Architect.
- Forcepoint -- More features supported, mainly added support for SMC API (see our [feature matrix](https://matrix.ipfabric.io) for more details).

### Noticeable changes

- Removed the End User Licensing agreement (EULA) acceptance step on a user's first log-in. A user approves EULA on loading a license.
- Web front-end migrated from local storage to cookie-based storage for access and refresh tokens.
- Vendor API configuration now has two additional fields -- `slug` (**required**) and `comment` (optional). See the [API section](../../IP_Fabric_Settings/Discovery_and_Snapshots/Discovery_Settings/Vendors_API/index.md#slug-and-comment) for more information.
  - During the upgrade the required field `slug` will be auto-generated for all current configured API providers.
- Clearing the database while keeping application settings no longer removes API tokens from the database.
- SSO configuration now allows for the use of `roleName` in the `/opt/nimpee/conf.d/api.json` file. Please see [Single Sign On (SSO)](../../IP_Fabric_Settings/administration/sso.md).
  - It is recommended to migrate from `roleId` to `roleName` for consistency and human readability.
- During the upgrade, all snapshots -- including locked snapshots -- will be unloaded. Once the upgrade is completed, please load an existing snapshot, or perform a new discovery to populate network data in IP Fabric.
- String table columns now support case insensitive regular expression operator and its negation.
- Added a column to show if Checkpoint rules are active.
- Removed "Technology > Spanning Tree > STP Stability" table from frontend and marked API endpoint `/tables/spanning-tree/topology` deprecated.
  "STP instances" table can be used instead.
- Clarified [password requirements and complexity checks](../../System_Administration/boot_wizard/change_osadmin_pass.md) for the `osadmin` user.
- Added a hard limit on number of retries for all http based vendor API discovery (except AWS). These are triggered when vendor API server is assumed to be overloaded.

### Bug Fixes

- Resolved an issue with Checkpoint rules displaying incorrect values for rule names and remarks.
- Resolved an issue where entries are not being created for hosts when there is a routing table entry for the specific host address.
- Resolved an issue where table privileges for non-admin users were not interpreted correctly in graphs. Non-admin users with table privileges are now able to see graphs correctly.
- Resolved an issue where traffic shaper configured over 90Mbps incorrectly shows 3Mbps after reboot.

### Network Discovery

- Alcatel -- Added support of basic discovery (see our [feature matrix](https://matrix.ipfabric.io) for more details).
- Arista -- Updated EoL information.
- AWS -- The IAM policy has been updated. There are 2 more endpoints required for the discovery of AWS infrastructure. See the [Amazon Web Services](../../IP_Fabric_Settings/Discovery_and_Snapshots/Discovery_Settings/Vendors_API/AWS_Amazon_Web_Services.md) page.
- Brocade
  - Added support for stack.
  - Added EoL information.
- Checkpoint -- Added support for NAT.
- Cisco
  - Added support for FabricPath in end-to-end path tracing.
  - Updated EoL information.
  - Viptela
    - Device information will not be fetched if device is not successfully synchronized within the vManage.
    - Lowered the maximum number of concurrent requests from a discovery worker to a Viptela server from 250 to 75 concurrent requests. This should decrease the workload on the Viptela server and increase its availability during the discovery process.
- Extreme -- Updated EoL information.
- F5
  - Added support for discovering multiple instances on a VELOS chassis.
  - Updated EoL information.
- Fortinet
  - Added support for NAT.
  - Updated EoL information.
- HP
  - Updated EoL information.
  - Comware -- Added support for route-policies and routing protocols filter-policies. There is a known issue in case route-policy and policy-based-route have the same name, only policy-based-route will be visible in route-maps table.
- Juniper SRX -- Added support for NAT.
- Palo Alto
  - Added support for NAT.
  - Updated EoL information.
  - Prisma -- Added support of basic discovery (see our [feature matrix](https://matrix.ipfabric.io) for more details).
- Policy Based Routing (PBR) -- Added support for PBR on Cisco (IOS, IOS-XE, NX-OS), FortiGate (Fortinet) and HP (Comware) devices. See [Routing](../../IP_Fabric_GUI/technology_tables/routing.md) page.
- Ruckus -- Added EoL information.
- Silver Peak -- Added support for two new login types (RADIUS and TACACS+).
- Versa -- Added support for end-to-end path tracing with Versa SD-WAN.
