---
description: In this section, you can find the release notes for v6.10 releases.
tags: ["draft"]
---

# IP Fabric v6.10

!!! danger "Unreleased Version"

    This is an upcoming IP Fabric version, which has not been released yet and
    is not available for download.

--8<-- "snippets/upgrade_version_policy.md"

--8<-- "snippets/clear_browser_cache.md"

## v6.10.0 (UNRELEASED)

### Breaking Changes

#### API Endpoints Deprecation

The below API endpoints have been marked as deprecated and the intention is to
remove them in the next major version `7.0`.

- `/tables/interfaces/transfer-rates/*`
- `/tables/interfaces/errors/*` except for `/tables/interfaces/errors/disabled`
- `/tables/interfaces/drops/*`

### Security Fixes

### Network Discovery

#### Vendor Support and Improvements

- Cisco APIC -- when an unsupported class is received in API response, the
  unsupported class is removed in the next request. Previously, this
functionality did not work when the `returnPartialData` configuration parameter
was set to `true`. This issue has been fixed in this release.

### Performance Improvements

#### Versa Routing Table Processing

The processing speed of routing tables has been dramatically improved, resulting
in a significant performance boost. This enhancement resolves issues where
discovery process would get stuck when processing very large routing tables.

### Frontend

### Settings

### Technology Tables

### Intent Rules

#### New Rules

- Technology > Management > Banner > Summary: `Device Banner`
  - Green -- Devices with either a MOTD or Login Banner configured.
  - Yellow -- Devices with no MOTD and no Login Banners configured.
- Technology > Management > Banner > Banners: `Banner Text`
  - Green -- Banner contains message on authorized use, monitoring, and penalties.
  - Yellow -- Banner does not contains message on authorized use, monitoring, and penalties.

#### Updated Rules

- Technology > Management NTP > Summary: `NTP Synchronized Sources`
  - Updated descriptions from "reachable" to "synchronized".
  - Corrected calculations of Success (green) rule causing an internal error.
- Technology > Management NTP > Sources: 
  - `NTP Stratum Level`: Updated Error (red) rule from `stratum==16` to `stratum>=16`.
  - `NTP Time Offset`: 
    - Corrected calculation of Success (green) to only report if `offest` is not empty.
    - Corrected calculation of Info (blue) to use correct `offest` column.
  - `NTP Network Round-Trip Time`: 
    - Corrected calculation of Success (green) to only report if `delay` is not empty.
- Technology > Management > SNMP > Communities:
  - `SNMP Community Name`: Corrected to match name on case insensitive equal.
- Technology > Environment > Power Supplies:
  - `Power-Supply State`: 
    - Updated State so `not present` is informational (blue) rather than error (red). 
    - Adding `alarm` and `power loss` to the error State 

### Path Lookup

### Appliance OS-Level Improvements

### Other Changes

- Cisco APIC vendor API client logging was extended.

### Experimental Features

