---
description: In this section, you can find the release notes for v6.2 releases.
---

# IP Fabric v6.2 (Hessian)

--8<-- "snippets/upgrade_version_policy.md"

--8<-- "snippets/clear_browser_cache.md"

## v6.2.2 (May 16th, 2023)

```shell
SHA256 (ipfabric-6-2-2+0.qcow2) = 45787c1039e3ca322477332fb96d9eb7b63d9bd0682870443066bd355510c242
MD5 (ipfabric-6-2-2+0.qcow2) = d3a7d7c0aed917bacc8c2f5aee33c41f
SHA256 (ipfabric-6-2-2+0.ova) = 1ba74e416cfdb777c7f36302911da8f9ad373bc4f167c7fca950f6c7d9d5a1c9
MD5 (ipfabric-6-2-2+0.ova) = fcaa6cde82b4abb41acd8e80c8503a5d
SHA256 (ipfabric-update-6-2-2+0.tar.gz.sig) = 464634d28b79565f38d983ec027e2a940a95c6368ea8cd8fd07535eaf4e578fa
MD5(ipfabric-update-6-2-2+0.tar.gz.sig) = ccfc9e25d347a00fc8bf085979380bf0
```

For the list of delivered tickets, please consult the [Low-Level Release Notes for 6.2.2](../release_notes_low-level/6.x/6.2.x/6.2.2.md).

### Bug Fixes

- Resolved an issue with F5 where interface IP addresses were not correctly interpreted.
- Resolved some FS parsing issues following initial support in `6.2.1`.
- Improved PBR representation and resolved an issue with set-vrf not correctly interpreted.

### Network Discovery

- Versa -- Changed API endpoints for routing table collection. New endpoints support pagination and allow downloads of big routing tables (see our [feature matrix](https://matrix.ipfabric.io) for more details).
- Check Point -- refactoring of API discovery.

## v6.2.1 (April 11th, 2023)

```shell
SHA256 (ipfabric-6-2-1+0.qcow2) = d0c32f66a29235b3c29d5d45c550dd8531634a071f03d82454f9ebe4f8b137a2
MD5 (ipfabric-6-2-1+0.qcow2) = 1b9d9e3792cdd143a594391694d2d040
SHA256 (ipfabric-6-2-1+0.ova) = e0f6fb103aa2e09500d1aebb05aa25d04981cc29c61ae788be6f3acaceed1964
MD5 (ipfabric-6-2-1+0.ova) = ecafc607eaa8277b63564f46574ec101
SHA256 (ipfabric-update-6_2_1+0.tar.gz.sig) = f255329e2cecab9f819feaafdf0f182d696029412b00bdd304606b888aa19964
MD5(ipfabric-update-6_2_1+0.tar.gz.sig) = cfe8cc8f05b4b3f8435612176d5d6e62
```

### Backward incompatible changes

- Tables for Cisco APIC (endpoint group contracts, applications, bridge domains and controllers) have `siteName` and `hostname` columns replaced by `apiUrl` string column.

### Noticeable changes

- Limiting the number of the Discovery services restarts -- only 1 restart per service is allowed (previously unlimited). Crashed service will impact the IP Fabric ability to finish running discovery or start a new one. Investigation of the cause of the restart is advised.

### Network Discovery

- Alcatel -- Added support for basic network management (see our [feature matrix](https://matrix.ipfabric.io) for more details).
- Cisco
  - FMC -- Added support for HA Pairs in Zone Firewall.
  - FMC -- Added support for EtherChannels in Zone Firewall.
  - Viptela
    - Lowered the maximum number of concurrent requests to a Viptela controller from 75 to 25 concurrent requests.
    - Improved re-authentication process for Viptela controller -- this was causing destroyed client issues.
- Forcepoint -- NAT support was added (see our [feature matrix](https://matrix.ipfabric.io) for more details).
- FS -- Added limited support of basic discovery (see our [feature matrix](https://matrix.ipfabric.io) for more details).
- PaloAlto
  - Panos -- Added support for license (see our [feature matrix](https://matrix.ipfabric.io) for more details).
  - Prisma -- Added support for management tasks (see our [feature matrix](https://matrix.ipfabric.io) for more details).

### Underlying Operating System and 3rd party packages

- The `dex` package used for SSO was upgraded from version 2.30.2 to latest version 2.36.0, see [their release notes](https://github.com/dexidp/dex/releases).
- Added several tools to simplify image management and troubleshooting. We are explicitly including the following -- `dnsutils`, `htop`, `ldap-utils`, `lftp`, `libcap2-bin`, `lsof`, `mtr-tiny`, `nano`, `net-tools`, `ncdu`, `screen`, `sntp`, `strace`, `tcpd`, `tcpdump`, `telnet`, `tmux`, `traceroute`, `vim`, `wget`.

### Upgrade Notices

- Upgrade to `v6.2` will break custom SSO integrations and will require a change to the `/etc/ipf-dex.yaml` file. Simply replace the `vX.Y` in this file with `v6.2` and then run `systemctl restart ipf-dex`.

  ```yaml
  staticClients:
    - id: ipfabric
      redirectURIs:
        - "https://demo1.eu.ipfabric.io/api/vX.Y/auth/external/azure"
  ```

  For more information, please refer to the [SSO documentation](../../settings/administration/sso.md#sso-configuration-ipf-dexyaml). If you would like assistance please contact your Solution Architect.
