---
description: In this section, you can find the release notes for v6.3 releases.
tags: ["draft"]
---

# IP Fabric v6.3 (Camlet)

!!! danger "Unreleased version"

    This is an upcoming IP Fabric version, which has not been released yet and is not available for download.

--8<-- "snippets/clear_browser_cache.md"

### Upgrade Notices

- During the update process locked snapshots will be unloaded together with other snapshots and their lock will be preserved. Therefore, such snapshots won't be deleted by snapshot retention.

### Backward incompatible changes

- API Tokens and Webhook Secrets become auto-generated and non-editable by a user. They are available to view only once after creation, and the user won't be able to view or edit them any further. From now, both tokens and secrets will always be 32 characters long and generated randomly. If API Token or Webhook secret values are lost, they should be recreated.
- Column type of `selectorLocalAddress` and `selectorRemoteAddress` columns in IPsec tunnels table was changed to a string. We no longer allow `ip` filter operator with the given columns.
- Legacy NAT tables have been replaced with NAT44 table (`tables/security/nat44`) in release 6.1. This release removes the remaining two legacy tables - `tables/addressing/nat/rules` and `tables/addressing/nat/pools`.

### Important changes

- Vendor API `Slug` can only contain `a-zA-Z0-9_-`. Previously created configurations will be automatically modified by removing not-allowed characters from `Slug` according to the new validation rules.
- SSO `roleName` can only contain `a-zA-Z0-9_-`. Previously created roles will be automatically modified by removing not-allowed characters from role name according to the new validation rules. Make sure specified `roleName` refers to the existing role in the system.
- Limiting the number of the Discovery services restarts -- from now on it is possible to change the default number of discovery service restarts. This may help you if your full discovery never completes. To change this setting, please contact our customer support team.
- You can use the `Test Connection` button to check the Vendor API connectivity settings. The connection is not tested automatically with each change, but only when you click the button. This lets you save the Vendor API settings even if the controller is unreachable from IP Fabric.

### New tables for customers using RBAC

The following new tables have been added to IP Fabric. If you are utilizing RBAC
please verify and update your
[Policies](../../IP_Fabric_Settings/administration/policies.md) to ensure your
users are able to view them as well as using the Path Lookup autocomplete.
If you need assistance please contact your Solution Architect.

- Technology Tables
  - POST `/tables/serial-ports` (Technology --> Serial Ports)
  - POST `/tables/routing/protocols/is-is/levels` (Technology --> Routing --> IS-IS --> Levels)
  - Tables under Technology --> Routing --> LISP
    - POST `/tables/routing/protocols/lisp/ipv4-routes` (Routes --> IPv4)
    - POST `/tables/routing/protocols/lisp/ipv6-routes` (Routes --> IPv6)
    - POST `/tables/routing/protocols/lisp/ipv4-databases` (Map Resolvers --> IPv4)
    - POST `/tables/routing/protocols/lisp/ipv6-databases` (Map Resolvers --> IPv6)
- Path Lookup: These new endpoints will search the IP Fabric database and autocomplete the IP Address dropdown fields.
  - POST `/tables/addressing/path-lookup-sources-unicast`
  - POST `/tables/addressing/path-lookup-sources-multicast`

### Network Discovery

- Cisco
  - Viptela -- added vBond Orchestrator discovery support.
  - Firepower -- added support for Threat Defense NAT policies (NAT44).
  - Cisco Software-Defined Access (SDA) -- added support for [Locator/ID Separation Protocol](../../IP_Fabric_GUI/technology_tables/lisp.md) (LISP).
- Juniper
  - Junos -- added support for [configuration groups](https://www.juniper.net/documentation/us/en/software/junos/junos-overview/cli/topics/concept/junos-software-configuration-groups-understanding.html) for tasks Zone Firewall, NAT44 and ACL (see our [feature matrix](https://matrix.ipfabric.io) for more details).
- Opengear
  - IM -- added support of basic discovery (see our [feature matrix](https://matrix.ipfabric.io) for more details).
- NSX-T -- API rate limiting was added to NSX-T discovery.
- Versa -- `refillRate` can be changed in the database settings and Pagination Limit in the Vendor API controller settings.
- IP Fabric
  - New Vendor API worker -- we have added a new worker to IP Fabric that only handles Vendor API data. Before, `worker@1` processed both Vendor API and CLI data. This change allows us to process up to 60 Vendor API devices simultaneously, instead of 20. You can contact our customer support team to adjust this default value if necessary.
  - Vendor API load-balancing -- IP Fabric can now process devices from multiple Vendor API controllers simultaneously. This change should speed up the discovery process and reduce the load on the Vendor API controllers.

### Re-organized Settings menu structure

To make the **Settings** menu more logical and intuitive, we have re-organized its items (including renaming some of them).

The following table shows how the items in the old menu map to those in the new menu:

| Old location                                  | Location in 6.3                                                           |
| :-------------------------------------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Authentication                                | Discovery & Snapshots --> Discovery Settings --> Device Credentials       |
| Discovery Seed                                | Discovery & Snapshots --> Discovery Settings --> Discovery Seeds          |
| Site Separation                               | Discovery & Snapshots --> Discovery Settings --> Site Separation          |
| Advanced --> Discovery                        | Discovery & Snapshots --> Discovery Settings --> Discovery                |
| Advanced --> Assurance Engine                 | Discovery & Snapshots --> Discovery Settings --> Assurance Engine         |
| Advanced --> Disabled Discovery Tasks         | Discovery & Snapshots --> Discovery Settings --> Disabled Discovery Tasks |
| Advanced --> Snapshots                        | Discovery & Snapshots --> Snapshot Retention                              |
| Advanced --> SSH/Telnet                       | Discovery & Snapshots --> Discovery Settings --> Advanced CLI             |
| Advanced --> SSH/Telnet --> Jumphost settings | Discovery & Snapshots --> Global Configuration --> Jumphost               |
| Advanced --> Vendors API                      | Discovery & Snapshots --> Discovery Settings --> Vendors API              |
| Advanced --> Configuration Management         | Configuration Management                                                  |
| Advanced --> IP FABRIC Certificate            | System --> IPF Certificates                                               |
| Advanced --> System                           | System --> Backup & Maintenance                                           |
| Advanced --> SNMP                             | System --> SNMP                                                           |
| User Management --> Users                     | Administration --> Local Users                                            |
| User Management --> LDAP                      | Administration --> LDAP                                                   |
| User Management --> Policies                  | Administration --> Policies                                               |
| User Management --> Roles                     | Administration --> Roles                                                  |
| Certificate Authorities                       | System --> Certificate Authorities                                        |
| API Tokens                                    | Integration --> API Tokens                                                |
| Webhooks                                      | Integration --> Webhooks                                                  |
| Device Attributes                             | Discovery & Snapshots --> Global Configuration --> Device Attributes      |
| OUI                                           | Discovery & Snapshots --> Global Configuration --> OUI                    |
| Configuration Wizard                          | (unchanged)                                                               |

### Known issues

- Editing OUI entries is broken in the UI (**Settings --> Discovery & Snapshots --> Global Configuration --> OUI**).
  OUI can be viewed and all previous changes are kept, but cannot be added or changed at the moment.
  - ID: `NIM-11931`
  - Root cause: UI uses wrong API endpoint URLs after restructuring settings menu.
  - Workaround: Use API `/settings/oui/*` directly.
  - Affected version: 6.3.0
- Custom policies with access to table endpoints don't allow to export table as CSV
  - ID: `NIM-11916`
  - Root cause: Custom policies could grant access only to `POST` HTTP method on table endpoints while export uses `GET` method
  - Workaround: Use admin access to export tables
  - Affected version: 6.3.0
- Routing table parsing and validation may restart discovery workers and stop discovery
  - Root cause: Parsing and validation of large BGP routing tables can stuck discovery workers for more than allowed 1 minute. Discovery workers may be disconnected from the discovery process and restarted. If too many restarts of discovery workers are performed, discovery process will stop.
  - ID: `NIM-11490`
  - Workaround: Limit download of BGP routing to minimum.
  - Affected versions: 6.2.0 and later
