---
description: In this section, you can find the release notes for v6.5 releases.
---

# IP Fabric v6.5

--8<-- "snippets/upgrade_version_policy.md"

--8<-- "snippets/clear_browser_cache.md"

### Upgrade Notices

- During the update process, locked snapshots will be unloaded together with
  other snapshots and their lock will be preserved. Therefore, such snapshots
  won't be deleted by snapshot retention.
- Upgrade to `v6.5` may break custom SSO integrations and will require a change
  to the `/etc/ipf-dex.yaml` file. Since `6.3.2` release, we are omitting minor
  API version for SSO configuration and only major version will need to be
  changed with the next major IP Fabric version. Simply replace the `vX.Y` in
  this file with `v6` and then run `systemctl restart ipf-dex`.

  ```yaml
  staticClients:
    - id: ipfabric
      redirectURIs:
        - "https://demo1.eu.ipfabric.io/api/vX/auth/external/azure"
  ```

  For more information, please refer to the
  [SSO documentation](../../IP_Fabric_Settings/administration/sso.md#sso-configuration-ipf-dexyaml).
  If you would like assistance please contact your Solution Architect.

## v6.5.1 (GA, November 14th, 2023)

```
SHA256 (ipfabric-update-6-5-1+0.tar.gz.sig) = 8820b67b4931a0de27e39ec60785ba7821819c894a4e402b6155ca
MD5 (ipfabric-update-6-5-1+0.tar.gz.sig) = 626f42c20b106715daf233e5baceebff
SHA256 (ipfabric-6-5-1+0.qcow2) = e544d45da0a758daf05d053845de2500d16d12c9e2e34070e972421dc6fee163
MD5 (ipfabric-6-5-1+0.qcow2) = b419855b077a0e85791ca4275f22dfbf
SHA256 (ipfabric-6-5-1+0.ova) = cf6dd27630087154657bfd926fd8ea1b6fb2bdd6916ead77907012edcec9f122
MD5 (ipfabric-6-5-1+0.ova) = 1113c4c4ea684651414bfa307b0ca149
```

### Important Product Changes

#### Forcing `DEFAULT@SECLEVEL=0`

All secure (read "encrypted with OpenSSL") connections made by IP Fabric have
forced `DEFAULT@SECLEVEL=0` to allow connections to devices with older OpenSSL
versions (which leads to the use of ciphers that are now considered weak). This
is just a temporary solution and will be removed in the future. We are working
on a solution to allow OpenSSL being configured by the user from the outside of
the `node.js` process.

### Known Issues

- LDAP authentication is not working if local authentication is enabled
  - We are working on a fix. The hotfix is to disable local authentication
    (`"enableLocalAuthentication": false`). If you are interested in the hotfix,
    please contact IP Fabric Support.

### Network Discovery

- AWS -- Support for Direct Connect Gateway (DXGW)
  - Added support for routing via Virtual Private Gateway (VGW). A Direct
    Connect Gateway can be associated either with Transit Gateways or Virtual
    Private Gateways (not both types at the same time).
  - DXGW partial routing table -- based on allowed prefixes specified in Direct
    Connect Gateway Association. DXGW routing table is currently missing
    prefixes from on-premise routers.
  - L2/L3 interfaces name on TGWs and VGWs directing towards DXGW.
  - Renamed DCGW to DXGW
- Check Point Gaia
  - Initial support for Identity Awareness (access-role objects) in security
    policies was added. See our
    [documentation](../../support/known_issues/Vendors/checkpoint.md) about how
    to set up management servers.
- Cisco
  - Viptela -- to prevent long discovery time, limit for OMP route API endpoints
    was added. Default value is 100. (see our
    [documentation](../../support/known_issues/Vendors/cisco/Viptela_cEdge_omp_limit.md)
    for more details)
  - Firepower -- extend support to map policies assigned to device clusters.
- F5 BIG-IP
  - End-to-End Path Lookup support was added for F5. Now you can see paths after
    load-balancing action to exact pool members.
- Advanced settings for Vendor APIs
  - It is now possible to fine-tune maximum concurrent requests, `maxCapacity`,
    and `refillRate` for each Vendor API. For more details, see
    [Vendors API - Advanced settings](../../IP_Fabric_Settings/Discovery_and_Snapshots/Discovery_Settings/Vendors_API/index.md#advanced-settings).
- ARP Table
  - Only records retrieved from a particular operational command are shown. In
    previous versions, local interfaces addresses, which were generated by IP
    Fabric for diagram modeling, could be also visible.

### Other Minor Changes

When a user uploads a snapshot archive, they are set as the creator of the
snapshot (discarding the information about the original creator).

### Experimental Features

Newly added features which need to be explicitly enabled in service files. If
you are interested in trying them out, please contact our Support or Solution
Architect team and we will gladly help you with enabling these features.

- Cisco
  - FMC -- FMC API has a bug which causes calling of
    `/objects/icmpv4objects?expanded=true` returning malformed data.
    We introduced a new feature flag `USE_FMC_NONEXPANDED_ICMP_CALL` which
    downloads ICMP objects definition 1 by 1.
  - ACI -- `fvTenant` Cisco APIC endpoint can fail in some environments due to
    size of response output. The `USE_ACI_FVTENANT_ENDPOINT` flag separates
    subclasses into single parameter requests.
- Google Cloud Platform
  - Basic discovery support was added, still under development as firewall and
    NAT feature is not finished yet. Only VPC, cloud routers, subnets, routes,
    and instances are discovered. Might be problematic in E2E discovery.
    (`ENABLE_DISCOVERY_DEVICES_GCP`)
- Stormshield
  - Basic discovery support was added as PoC and needs to be enabled manually.
    (`ENABLE_DISCOVERY_DEVICES_STORMSHIELD`)
- Nokia SROS
  - Basic discovery support was added as PoC and needs to be enabled manually.
    (`ENABLE_DISCOVERY_DEVICES_NOKIA`)
