---
description: In this section, you can find the release notes for v6.7 releases.
---

# IP Fabric v6.7

--8<-- "snippets/6.6.3_online_upgrade_issue.md"

--8<-- "snippets/upgrade_version_policy.md"

--8<-- "snippets/clear_browser_cache.md"

### Upgrade Notices

- During the update process, locked snapshots will be unloaded together with
  other snapshots and their lock will be preserved. Therefore, such snapshots
  won't be deleted by snapshot retention.
- Upgrade to `6.7` may break custom SSO integrations and will require a change
  to the `/etc/ipf-dex.yaml` file. Since the `6.3.2` release, we are omitting minor
  API version for SSO configuration, and only major version will need to be
  changed with the next major IP Fabric version. Simply replace the `vX.Y` string in
  this file with `v6` and then run `systemctl restart ipf-dex`.

  ```yaml
  staticClients:
    - id: ipfabric
      redirectURIs:
        - "https://demo1.eu.ipfabric.io/api/vX/auth/external/azure"
  ```

  For more information, please refer to the
  [SSO documentation](../../IP_Fabric_Settings/administration/sso.md#sso-configuration-ipf-dexyaml).
  If you would like assistance, please contact your Solution Architect.

## v6.7.7 (March 20th, 2024; GA)

```
SHA256 (ipfabric-update-6-7-7+0.tar.gz.sig) = 6a1afac838cdcae141f5751a98f756034fe154ede5de5862bb41c6bdc91ecb37
MD5 (ipfabric-update-6-7-7+0.tar.gz.sig) = 58c323c6f2a6b50bd217a13b0a11c4df
SHA256 (ipfabric-6-7-7+0.qcow2) = 5a59379ba7eefba53af56c5e1c0b9ec0bf556349f232f3ad29646847a4fd02c8
MD5 (ipfabric-6-7-7+0.qcow2) = 28a08133ad0ce80b599161fbd18db4de
SHA256 (ipfabric-6-7-7+0.ova) = e90e80628ff1c57916b3951dc7abf99fdb4f70822425a1c60e8c16ad19d72d4c
MD5 (ipfabric-6-7-7+0.ova) = 6a1c06f404c8a174e045e14104ef727a
```
For the list of delivered tickets, please consult the [Low-Level Release Notes for 6.7.0](../release_notes_low-level/6.x/6.7.x/6.7.0.md) and following minor releases.

### Replacement of `nimpee startprod` and `nimpee stopprod` Commands

- The `nimpee` script (`sys-nimpee.sh`) used to manage the IP Fabric services
  has been replaced with the `ipf-appliance` service group. You can use:
  - `systemctl start ipf-appliance` instead of `nimpee startprod`
  - `systemctl stop ipf-appliance` instead of `nimpee stoppprod`
- We want to leverage system tooling instead of custom scripts.

### Important Product Changes

- Cisco FMC client re-sends `GET` request once when it receives `200 OK` response with empty body.
- We have started [collecting usage data](../../IP_Fabric_GUI/usage_data_collection.md).

### Network Discovery

- Azure -- Added support for discovery of multiple subscriptions within the same tenant. The **Subscription IDs** field for `Azure` in **Settings --> Discovery & Snapshots --> Discovery Settings --> Vendors API** is now optional, leave it empty to discover all available subscriptions. Required role permissions have been changed, see [Azure Networking -- Role Definitions for IP Fabric](../../IP_Fabric_Settings/Discovery_and_Snapshots/Discovery_Settings/Vendors_API/Azure_Networking.md##role-definitions-for-ip-fabric).
- Check Point -- Added support for discovery of firewalls connected to Maestro Orchestrator.
- Cisco
  - Viptela -- Added support for [Service Chaining](https://learningnetwork.cisco.com/s/article/cisco-sd-wan-service-chaining). Service chaining policies are modeled in PBR task. Other PBR Viptela functionality isn't supported.
  - ENCS -- Added support for the basic discovery.
- Juniper
  - Mist -- We have improved the discovery speed for large networks. Instead of fetching data from Redis cache for each device and task, we now access the data directly from memory. This significantly eliminates the loading time.
- FS -- Devices banners are now being parsed and stored in our tables. See [Banner](../../IP_Fabric_GUI/technology_tables/management_table.md#Banner) for more details.
- Silver Peak (HPE Aruba EdgeConnect) -- Added support for new API [9.3 Endpoints](https://developer.arubanetworks.com/aruba-edgeconnect/docs/rest-api-table-for-93).

### Other Changes

- MAC addresses starting with `649EF3` are no longer incorrectly detected as IP Phones but as network devices.
- The parameters that were originally hard-coded in vendor API clients, such as timeouts and number of re-sends, can now be configured in situ with the assistance of IP Fabric Support.
- The dot character (`.`) can be used in usernames for jumphost settings, SNMP configuration, and system backup.
- Sometimes Cisco FMC doesn't return an access token, even for successful authentication requests. Our Cisco FMC client now detects this situation and re-authenticates.
- Fixed Silverpeak vendor API client that failed during re-authentication when it received no `orchCsrfToken` token.
- `NULL` values were sometimes treated as the smallest numerical value in filters. This was rectified, and `NULL` values cannot be compared to numerical values anymore (result of comparison will be always `false`).
- Changed behavior of `Loading Graph cache` Assurance Engine task
  - With this task disabled (to skip topology calculation at the end of discovery and make discovery faster), the Network Viewer (Site Diagrams) and Path Lookup (End to end path, Host to Gateway path) are now still able to load diagrams; they will be just slower as the topology is not cached and needs to be calculated on demand.

### 3rd-party Updates

- [dex -- A federated OpenID Connect provider](https://github.com/dexidp/dex) has been updated to version `2.38.0`.

### Experimental Features

Newly added features which need to be explicitly enabled in service files. If you are interested in trying them out, please contact our Support or Solution Architect team and we will gladly help you with enabling these features.

- FortiGate FortiSwitch

  - Basic discovery support was added as PoC and needs to be enabled manually.
    (`ENABLE_DISCOVERY_DEVICES_FORTISWITCH`)

- Google Cloud Platform
  - Improved support for already implemented features.
  - Added support for BGP routing task on cloud routers.
  - Use feature flag `ENABLE_DISCOVERY_DEVICES_GCP` to enable GCP discovery.

### Known Issues

- Google Cloud Platform -- Regional routing mode is currently unavailable and will default to global routing mode.
  To learn more about the difference between these modes, please refer to the
  [GCP API Documentation](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/reference/rest/v1/networks/get#:~:text=The%20network%2Dwide%20routing%20mode%20to%20use.%20If%20set%20to%20REGIONAL)
  or the [Cloud Router Overview](https://cloud.google.com/network-connectivity/docs/router/concepts/overview#route-advertisement-default).
