---
description: In this section, you can find the release notes for v6.8 releases.
tags: ["draft"]
---

# IP Fabric v6.8

!!! danger "Unreleased version"

    This is an upcoming IP Fabric version, which has not been released yet and
    is not available for download.

## v6.8.0 (UNRELEASED)

### Network Discovery

- Combined API + CLI discovery support for SD-WAN vendors [Versa](../../IP_Fabric_Settings/Discovery_and_Snapshots/Discovery_Settings/Vendors_API/Versa_Networks_SD-WAN.md) and [Viptela](../../IP_Fabric_Settings/Discovery_and_Snapshots/Discovery_Settings/Vendors_API/Cisco_Viptela_SD-WAN.md#cisco-viptela-sd-wan)
  - If combined discovery is enabled, routing tables are downloaded via CLI to avoid big data transfers over the controller. The discovery time should be improved.
  - After finishing all API calls, IP Fabric tries to connect to one of the device IPs (the default limit is 10 IPs, now configurable with IP Fabric Support). Credentials from the global discovery settings are used. If the device is not reachable, the routing table won't be downloaded.
- Azure -- The issue with multiple subcriptions has been fixed. Multiple subscriptions can now be specified and will be correctly discovered.
- Silver Peak (HPE Aruba EdgeConnect) -- Stale ARP records are stored due to a
  very short expiration time (TTL).
- HPE Citrix Aruba CX -- Support for Policy-Based Routing was added.
- Fortinet FortiSwitch
  - It is not necessary to enable it manually (`ENABLE_DISCOVERY_DEVICES_FORTISWITCH`) anymore.
  - Support for MCLAG and transceivers was added.
- Cisco (NX-OS, IOS-XR, ACI, ASA, FTD, IOS, IOS-XE) -- Support for bandwidth on interfaces was added.

### New CIDR Operators for Table Routing Columns

- Operators:
  - is strict supernet (API: `gt`, UI: `>`)
  - is supernet (API: `gte`, UI: `>=`)
  - is strict subnet (API: `lt`, UI: `<`)
  - is subnet (API: `lte`, UI: `<=`)
  - overlaps (API: `sect`, UI: `@`)
  - does not overlap (API: `nsect`, UI: `!@`)
- All new operators take IPv4 CIDR as a value.
- The operators are available for IPv4 routing table columns (e.g., in **Technology --> Routing --> Routes**).
- The operators can be used for table data filtering and in intent verification rule definitions.

### Other Changes

- Discovery error detection and reporting have been improved.
- `Device Change` dashboard widget -- The `Number of Changes` axis' scale has
  been changed from linear to logarithmic. This adjustment should improve
  visualization overall and prevent confusion with scale in certain cases.
- You can now update device attributes on an existing snapshot from global settings in
  **Discovery Snapshot --> Settings --> Device Attributes**. This action fully replaces
  all attributes on the snapshot.
- You can filter [Disabled Discovery Tasks](../../IP_Fabric_Settings/Discovery_and_Snapshots/Discovery_Settings/disabled_discovery_tasks.md) by device's Serial Number. This should help with targeting specific devices.
- In Table Description, there's a link to a separate page with the API documentation. Additionally, we've ensured that the information in our API documentation accurately reflects the behavior of our endpoints.
