---
description: In this section, you can find the release notes for v6.9 releases.
---

# IP Fabric v6.9

--8<-- "snippets/6.6.3_online_upgrade_issue.md"

--8<-- "snippets/upgrade_version_policy.md"

--8<-- "snippets/clear_browser_cache.md"

### Upgrade Notices

- During the update process, locked snapshots will be unloaded together with
  other snapshots, and their locks will be preserved. Therefore, such snapshots
  won't be deleted by snapshot retention.
- The upgrade to version `6.9` may break custom SSO integrations and will
  require a change to the `/etc/ipf-dex.yaml` file. Since the `6.3.2` release,
  we are omitting the minor API version for SSO configuration, and only the
  major version will need to be changed with the next major IP Fabric version.
  Simply replace the `vX.Y` string in this file with `v6` and then run
  `systemctl restart ipf-dex`.

  ```yaml
  staticClients:
    - id: ipfabric
      redirectURIs:
        - "https://demo1.eu.ipfabric.io/api/v6/auth/external/azure"
  ```

  For more information, please refer to the
  [SSO documentation](../../IP_Fabric_Settings/administration/sso.md#sso-configuration-ipf-dexyaml).
  If you would like assistance, please contact your Solution Architect.

## v6.9.6 (August 06th, 2024; GA)

```
SHA256 (ipfabric-update-6-9-6+0.tar.gz.sig) = 696a8e78955cc627f3cf3f8283e7ecca6b9cfa5903c83bf7e0ba7caa6d502537
MD5 (ipfabric-update-6-9-6+0.tar.gz.sig) = 1ac6e8ba73cf3b56973655d23b81f910
SHA256 (ipfabric-6-9-6+0.ova) = 0f039ac39b3fe31f18d12e91719cfaf620f6d54c45af93599be334a481bf6281
MD5 (ipfabric-6-9-6+0.ova) = aee2ae83ffb9df1a62f89921f938803a
SHA256 (ipfabric-6-9-6+0.qcow2) = 00f99d1301f4142c47991036a39fe94863a907294911158ed3b1d2421b33d3d6
MD5 (ipfabric-6-9-6+0.qcow2) = d83b8944eca6c6a393f170014198c00a
SHA256 (ipfabric-6-9-6+0.vmdk) = 22b8e516187c696babdb931c1308d7455a4f4700d793e802602d81a9a122e3ad
MD5 (ipfabric-6-9-6+0.vmdk) = 5a3499fad17893e6646c9f7a10c96c22
```

### Security Fixes

- Fixed the issue with enable passwords being logged in plaintext in the CLI log
  while discovering Opengear devices with the `Neighbors` task enabled. For
  details and remediation, please see 
  [NIM-13396: Opengear – Prevent `sudo` Password From Being Logged](../../support/security_bulletins.md#nim-13396-opengear-prevent-sudo-password-from-being-logged)
  in our Security Bulletin.

### Authentication

`accessToken` and `refreshToken` have been removed from the response body of all
endpoints (`/auth/login`, `/auth/token`, and `/auth/token/swap`) as a security
enhancement to protect against XSS attacks. If you use this authentication
method in your scripts, please update them to use the `Set-Cookie` headers. For
more details, see [Token API](../../IP_Fabric_API/authentication.md#token-api).

### Network Discovery

- Versa -- LLDP support was added.
- Stormshield (SN) -- Support for filter (firewall) rules was added.
- Brocade (FastIron) -- NTP support was added.
- Fortinet FortiGate -- SD-WAN support was added. For more details, see
  [Fortinet SD-WAN Known Issues](../../support/known_issues/Vendors/fortinet/sdwan.md).
- Overloaded server detection for HTTP/HTTPS-based Vendor APIs was improved.

### Other Changes

- **Settings --> Discovery & Snapshots --> Discovery Settings --> Advanced CLI
  --> CLI Settings**
  - The **Authentication failure** field (how many times to retry a connection 
    when it fails on authentication) now has an increased maximum value (5,
    previously 2). The default value is still 0.
  - The option to amend **Network device authentication timeout** (how many
    seconds to wait for the login prompt to appear) was added. The default value 
    is 300 seconds.
  - The option to amend **Command response timeout** (how many minutes to wait
    for a device to finish sending the response to a command) was added. The
    default value is 180 minutes.
- **Settings --> Discovery & Snapshots --> Discovery Settings --> Device
  Credentials**
  - Usernames & passwords accept ASCII printable characters only.
- **Discovery Snapshot --> (specific snapshot) --> Settings --> Device
  Credentials**
  - Usernames & passwords accept ASCII printable characters only.
- **Inventory --> Devices --> Device Details**
  - The option to download device data in JSON format was added.
- The `nimpee-net-config` command for the First Boot Wizard has changed to
  `ipf-cli-config`. Also, the First Boot Wizard is now known as IPF CLI Config.
- Jumphost services have been renamed from `jumphost@<ID>.service` to
  `ipf-jumphost@<ID>.service` (adding the `ipf-` prefix).

### Experimental Features

Newly added features that need to be explicitly enabled in service files. If
you are interested in trying them out, please contact our Support or Solution
Architect team, and we will gladly help you with enabling these features.

- VeloCloud
  - Basic device info support was added as Proof of Concept (PoC) and needs to
    be enabled manually (`ENABLE_DISCOVERY_DEVICES_VELOCLOUD`).
