---
description: In this section, you can find the release notes for v7.0 releases.
tags: ["draft"]
# Don't forgot to edit `Feature_Flags.md`
---

# IP Fabric v7.0

!!! danger "Unreleased Version"

    This is an upcoming IP Fabric version, which has not been released yet and
    is not available for download.

--8<-- "snippets/upgrade_version_policy.md"

--8<-- "snippets/clear_browser_cache.md"

## v7.0.0 (UNRELEASED)

### Post-Upgrade Notices

If you are using custom Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) to restrict access to certain IP Fabric elements based on role, ensure that users have the appropriate permissions for new tables and capabilities. After the upgrade, please run the script found in the Python SDK: [Managed RBAC Configuration](https://gitlab.com/ip-fabric/integrations/python-ipfabric/-/blob/develop/examples/settings/RBAC/managed_rbac.py) (`managed_rbac.py`).

Upgrade to `7.0` will break custom SSO integrations and will require a change to the `/etc/ipf-dex.yaml` file. Simply replace the versioned `redirectURIs` with `api/oauth2/external/<SSO_PROVIDER_NAME>` and then run `systemctl restart ipf-dex`.

```yaml
staticClients:
  - id: ipfabric
    redirectURIs:
      - "https://<YOUR_IPF_INSTANCE_URL>/api/oauth2/external/<SSO_PROVIDER_NAME>"
```

For more information, please refer to the [SSO documentation](../../IP_Fabric_Settings/administration/sso.md#static-clients). If you would like assistance, please contact your Solution Architect or Support Team.

### New Features

#### Extensions (Engineering Preview)

In the 7.0 release, we're introducing Extensions, a new feature that allows users to add and customize their IP Fabric instance with a tailored functionality. Extension can

- Generate custom reports (e.g., DORA)
- Transform data in real-time (custom tables)
- Enrich your data through external source integration (CVE information for devices)
- Implement business-specific processing logic (global search)
- and much more...

Extensions are managed and access through standard IP Fabric UI under **Extensions** in the main menu.

##### Feature activation

Starting with version 7.0, Extensions can be enabled with `ENABLE_EXTENSIONS=true` [feature flag](../../System_Administration/Command_Line_Interface/Feature_Flags.md) in the global `/etc/default/ipf-appliance-local` file.

##### Flexible deployment options

Extensions supports two streamlined deployment methods:

- **Source Code Deployment**: Submit your source code and `Dockerfile` in a ZIP archive for automated building and deployment
- **Pre-built Container Deployment**: Upload your pre-built Docker image (container image created with `docker save` command, has to have `.tar` extension) for immediate execution

##### Technical Specifications

- Extensions run as containers alongside your main application
- Each extension has to listen on port `80/tcp` for incoming traffic
- Standard communication flows:
  - Container → Host: Port 443 (for API requests)
  - Host → Container: Port 80 (for extension UI)
- Full external network access support for integration with third-party services

##### Storage Considerations

Please note that Extensions utilize temporary storage in the `/tmp` folder for:

- Uploaded source code archives
- Docker image files

These artifacts are automatically cleaned up according to your system's temporary storage management policies.

##### Access Control and Permissions

Extensions are governed by a set of atomic permissions that can be assigned through security policies. By default, administrative accounts have full access to all Extensions functionality.

Manageable permissions include:

- Viewing Extensions dashboard
  - `GET: /extensions`
- Viewing Extension details
  - `GET: /extensions/{extensionId}`
- Registering new Extensions
  - `POST: /extensions/docker-image`
  - `POST: /extensions/docker-zip`
- Starting/Stopping Extensions
  - `POST: /extensions/{extensionId}/start`
  - `POST: /extensions/{extensionId}/stop`
- Un-registering Extensions
  - `DELETE: /extensions/{extensionId}`
- View Extension logs
  - `GET: /extensions/{extensionId}/logs`
- Download Extension logs
  - `GET: /extensions/{extensionId}/logs/download`

Each operation requires its specific permission, and unauthorized actions are prevented both at UI level (hidden buttons) and API level (`403 Forbidden responses`).

#### GUI

- **Early Snapshot-Data Availability** -- The GUI now shows available data (tables and diagrams) for snapshots that are still in progress or in an error state.

  !!! important

      Since this data is displayed while still being processed, it may be incomplete.

- **Shareable Snapshot and Tables** -- Easily share specific [snapshot](../../IP_Fabric_GUI/discovery_snapshot.md#create-url-pointing-to-specific-snapshot), and [tables (including a snapshot ID and full filter representation)](../../IP_Fabric_GUI/technology_tables/index.md#create-links-to-table-views) with your team using shareable links in the GUI.

  - Added support for [URL links that point to a specific
    snapshot](../../IP_Fabric_GUI/discovery_snapshot.md#create-url-pointing-to-specific-snapshot).
  - Links to tables can now be shared [with a snapshot ID and full filter
    representation](../../IP_Fabric_GUI/technology_tables/index.md#create-links-to-table-views).

- **Discovery force stop** -- A new **[Force Stop](../../IP_Fabric_GUI/discovery_snapshot.md#force-stopping-discovery)** button has been added next to the **Stop** button for immediate discovery termination.

  - API endpoint `/jobs/{key}/force-stop`

    !!! Warning "If You Choose to Force Stop Discovery"

        The snapshot data may be inconsistent and unusable.

        To ensure UI access is maintained after a discovery **Force Stop**, any system jobs scheduled to start afterward will be cancelled.

- **Pinnable Pages in the Technology Tables** -- Each page in the **Technology Tables** can be pinned to the main menu under the **Technology** section, see [Pin Pages to the Main Menu for Quick Access](../../IP_Fabric_GUI/technology_tables/index.md#pin-pages-to-the-main-menu-for-quick-access).
- **Dashboard with Multiple Views** -- You can now create multiple views on your Dashboard fitting your needs. Just add a new tab panel, give it a name and select desired widgets.
- **IPv4 Managed IP Summary table** -- A new table providing an overview of sites and all their IPv4 subnets. For each subnet, it provides an information about its gateways, count of users and total counts of different VLAN IDs and VRF names. This new table is going to replace two existing technology tables -- `Managed Networks` and `Gateway redundancy` tables -- which are deprecated now and will be removed in the next major IPF release. Unlike the existing tables, the new table provides information about all subnets regardless of the devices where they are configured.

For more information, please refer to the [IPv4 Managed IP Summary table documentation](../../IP_Fabric_GUI/technology_tables/addressing/ipv4-managed-ip-summary.md).

#### Cloud

- **New Cloud Tables** -- New public-cloud tables provide more information for AWS, Azure, and Google Cloud Platform (GCP):

  - **AWS**
    - `/tables/cloud/vendors/aws/inventory`
  - **Azure**
    - `/tables/cloud/vendors/azure/inventory`
  - **GCP**
    - `/tables/cloud/vendors/gcp/inventory`
  - **Silverpeak**
    - `/tables/sdwan/silverpeak/overlay`
    - `/tables/sdwan/silverpeak/underlay`
  - **Viptela**
    - `/tables/sdwan/viptela/bfd-sessions`
    - `/tables/sdwan/viptela/bfd-summary`
    - `/tables/sdwan/viptela/control-connections`
  - **General Public Cloud Tables**
    - `/tables/cloud/nodes/inventory`
    - `/tables/cloud/nodes/tags`

- **AWS Direct Connect Transit VIF support** -- Routing via Transit Virtual Interfaces over dedicated/hosted connections is now supported in E2E path lookup. To enable this, the new task **“BGP Advertised Routes” must be activated** on the on-prem routers where AWS Direct Connect connections terminate. More information can be found in the [Dynamic Routing](#dynamic-routing) section.

#### SD-WAN

- **New Capabilities -- Cisco Viptela** -- New tables collect Bi-directional Forwarding Detection (BFD) and control plane connection data.

  - **BFD Sessions Table** -- Contains IP addresses, Site IDs, encapsulation type, source and destination IP addresses and ports, interface information, and uptime status.
  - **Control Connections Table** -- Contains peer type and protocol, Site ID, peer private/public IP and port, and uptime status.
  - **BFD Summarization Table** -- Displays the number of total sessions, active sessions, sessions flapping, and the maximum sessions allowed.

- **New Capabilities -- Silverpeak** -- New tables show overlay and underlay information:

  - **Overlay Table** -- Contains SD-WAN bonded tunnel information with status and uptime.
  - **Underlay Table** -- Contains IPsec tunnels that map to discrete transports.

- **New Capabilities -- Versa Networks** -- Configuration backup support has been added for devices when network discovery is running in combined/hybrid (CLI+API) mode.

#### Network Discovery

- **New Capabilities -- Check Point** -- The ability to collect Enforcement Point data using a new extended command, allowing access to expert mode when explicitly defined. See [Checkpoint Known Issues](../../support/known_issues/Vendors/checkpoint.md#identity-awareness-support).

- **New Capabilities -- Stormshield:**

  - Support for collecting NAT rules has been added.
  - Stormshield devices are now discovered automatically by default.

- **New Vendor -- GoogleCloud Platform:**

  - Possibility to [configure GoogleCloud Platform API discovery](../../IP_Fabric_Settings/Discovery_and_Snapshots/Discovery_Settings/Vendors_API/GCP_Google_Cloud_Platform.md) is now available in the GUI, without need to enable feature flag (`ENABLE_DISCOVERY_DEVICES_GCP`).
  - Support for Load Balancer discovery has been added.

- **Duplicate IP Discovery** -- The ability to discover duplicate IP addresses in the same network can now be allowed explicitly [in the
  GUI](../../IP_Fabric_Settings/Discovery_and_Snapshots/Discovery_Settings/discovery/duplicate_ips_discovery.md).

  !!! important

      If you previously configured `SUBNETS_TO_ALLOW_PROCESSING_DUPLICIT_IP` in the tasker service, you will need to manually set the subnets again in the GUI.

- **Pagination on `actrlRule` API endpoint** -- The Cisco APIC `actrlRule` API endpoint has a default paging size of 50,000 records (previously, the lack of a paging limit led to slow or unsuccessful data collection). The page size can be adjusted using the `ACI_ACTRLRULE_PAGESIZE` configuration flag. Please contact our Support team if you need to lower the default value.

#### Diagrams

- **Added Media to xDP line cap labels** -- you can now configure diagrams to show Media information as a line cap label for xDP links.
- **Visio Export** -- An "Export to VSDX" button has been added to the [Diagrams toolbar](../../IP_Fabric_GUI/diagrams/network_viewer.md#export-current-view-to-svgpngvsdx). This feature allows diagrams to be exported as `.vsdx` files, which can be opened in Visio.

  !!! Info "NOT Supported"

      - Export of `Intent checks` in diagrams (colorful nodes are not supported).
      - Export of temporarily visible hidden nodes in "Show Hidden Nodes" mode.
      - Export of group boundaries.

#### Interactive API Documentation

- **Explore and Test Workflows Directly From the API Documentation** -- Interactive API documentation (powered by `RapiDoc`) allows you to see predefined schemas and make requests directly from your web browser. You can find it at `https://<host>/api/rapidoc`.

#### Dynamic Routing

- **New BGP Table -- Advertised Routes** -- A new table in **Technology --> Routing --> BGP** has been added to provide more information about BGP routes being advertised to neighbors.

  !!! Important "BGP Advertised Routes task"

      The data collected for this table can be substantial, so the task **BGP Advertised Routes** is disabled by default.

      This table will only populate if the related collector task is explicitly enabled.

      To enable it, delete the **BGP Advertised Routes** rule from the list under **Settings --> Discovery & Snapshots --> Discovery Settings --> Disabled Discovery Tasks**.

#### Support for Future Functionality

- **Docker Container Support** -- Docker runtime has been added to the appliance for future accelerated extensibility.
- **New Database Added** -- PostgreSQL 15 has been added to the appliance for future scalability and performance improvements.
- **Add External Services to Appliance** -- A new script, `/opt/ipf-debian-repositories/bin/ipf-debian-repositories.sh`, can be used to re-enable official Debian repositories.

### Improvements

- **Device-Based Advanced Filters** -- Filter tables based on device properties such as `Vendor`, `Family`, `Model`, and `Version`.
  - For a full list of properties, see [Technology Tables -- Device-Based Advanced Filters](../../IP_Fabric_GUI/technology_tables/index.md#device-based-advanced-filters).
- **Server Overload Detection** -- We've enhanced the overload detection for all HTTP-based vendor API clients. Now, if an overloaded server message is received, the system pauses for a specified duration before retrying.
- **Site Separation Automatic Site Name Identification** -- Enhanced the option to build advanced Site Name values using RegEx template strings. See [Site
  Separation](../../IP_Fabric_Settings/Discovery_and_Snapshots/Discovery_Settings/site_separation.md).

- **Format Change for Techsupport Files** -- Techsupport files are now compressed with `zstd` (instead of `gzip`) for improved speed and compression ratio.

- **Unnecessary Tables Have Been Removed:**

  - **Technology --> Interfaces --> Average Rates --> Data**
  - **Technology --> Interfaces --> Average Rates --> Errors**
  - **Technology --> Interfaces --> Average Rates --> Drops**

- **Renamed Initial Configuration Command**
  - This is a reminder that in the previous `6.9.x` release, `nimpee-net-config` was renamed to `ipf-cli-config` to align with the current product name.
    - This change remains valid for `7.0.x` and newer versions.

### API Changes

Several API endpoints have been updated or removed in this major release. This could result in breaking your automation and system workflows. Please consult your Operations or DevOps team to double-check if you use these endpoints.

#### Replaced Endpoints

- `/tables/sdwan/links` --> `/tables/sdwan/versa/links`
- `/tables/sdwan/sites` --> `/tables/sdwan/versa/sites`
- `/tables/load-balancing/f5-partitions` --> `/tables/load-balancing/partitions`
- `/tables/mpls/l2vpn/curcit-cross-connect` --> `/tables/mpls/l2vpn/circuit-cross-connect`
- `/tables/cloud/virtual-machines-interfaces` --> `/tables/cloud/endpoints/virtual-machines-interfaces`
- `/tables/cloud/virtual-machines` --> `/tables/cloud/endpoints/virtual-machines`

- `/tables/management/osver-consistency` replaced with the following:

  - `/tables/inventory/os-version-consistency/platforms`
  - `/tables/inventory/os-version-consistency/models`

- The API version is no longer part of the token endpoint, making the following path inaccessible:

  - `<API_VERSION>/auth/token`
  - Please use `/auth/token` instead.

- `/licenses/validity` was updated as it does not need authentication and previously exposed maximum number of devices,
  which can be considered sensitive information.

  - The same information can now be retrieved at `/licenses/info`, which requires authentication.
  - The `/licenses/validity` endpoint does not contain `devices` field anymore.

#### Removed Endpoints

- `/tables/networks/domain`
- `/tables/spanning-tree/radius`
- `/tables/spanning-tree/topology`
- `/tables/addresing/path-lookup-sources`
- `/tables/attributes/summary`
- `/tables/interfaces/transfer-rates/*`
- `/tables/interfaces/errors/*`
  - except `/tables/interfaces/errors/disabled`
- `/tables/interfaces/drops/*`

### Added Endpoint

Along with other new features and tables mentioned in this release note the following new endpoint has been also added:

- `/settings/networks/exclude`: Append discovery networks settings exclude list
- `/tables/addressing/ipv4-managed-ip-summary`: Provides data for a new `IPv4 Managed IP Summary` table

#### Replaced Endpoint Properties

- **NTP Synchronization Status** -- Some vendors report reachable status along with synchronization status, leading to incorrectly marking some sources as not reachable.
  - The following columns have been renamed to more accurately reflect their property:
    - `/tables/management/ntp/summary`: `reachableSources` --> `synchronizedSources`
    - `/tables/management/ntp/sources`: `reachable` --> `sync`

#### Removed Endpoint Properties

- `/tables/networks/policies/routing/interfaces: status`
- `/tables/inventory/devices: mac`

### Frontend URL Changes

#### Removed Alias `f` in URLs

- Support for `f` as an alias for `filters` in table URLs has been dropped.

  !!! example "Removed URL"

      `https://<IPF_IP_or_FQDN>/inventory/os-versions?options={"f":{"and":[{"version":["eq","15.5(2)T"]},{"platform":["eq","i86bi_linux"]}]}}`

  !!! example "Still Supported URL"

      `https://<IPF_IP_or_FQDN>/inventory/os-versions?options={"filters":{"and":[{"version":["eq","15.5(2)T"]},{"platform":["eq","i86bi_linux"]}]}}`

#### Moved table URLs

- Managed IPv4 table was moved from `/technology/addressing/managed-ip` to `/technology/addressing/managed-ip/ipv4`.

### System Administration UI Deprecation

System administration UI on port `8443` will be removed in the near future. In 7.0 we are providing replacements for its functionality.

For more details, see the [System Administration UI](../../System_Administration/System_Administration_UI/index.md) documentation.

### Intent Rules

#### New Rules

- **Technology --> Management --> Banner --> Summary:** `Device Banner`
  - Green -- Devices with either a MOTD or Login Banner configured.
  - Yellow -- Devices with no MOTD and no Login Banners configured.
- **Technology --> Management --> Banner --> Banners:** `Banner Text`
  - Green -- Banner contains message on authorized use, monitoring, and penalties.
  - Yellow -- Banner does not contains message on authorized use, monitoring, and penalties.

#### Updated Rules

- **Technology --> Management NTP --> Summary:** `NTP Synchronized Sources`
  - Updated descriptions from "reachable" to "synchronized".
  - Corrected calculations of Success (green) rule causing an internal error.
- **Technology --> Management NTP --> Sources:**
  - `NTP Stratum Level`: Updated Error (red) rule from `stratum==16` to `stratum>=16`.
  - `NTP Time Offset`:
    - Corrected calculation of Success (green) to only report if `offest` is not empty.
    - Corrected calculation of Info (blue) to use correct `offest` column.
  - `NTP Network Round-Trip Time`:
    - Corrected calculation of Success (green) to only report if `delay` is not empty.
- **Technology --> Management --> SNMP --> Communities:**
  - `SNMP Community Name`: Corrected to match name on case insensitive equal.
- **Technology --> Environment --> Power Supplies:**
  - `Power-Supply State`:
    - Updated State so `not present` is informational (blue) rather than error (red).
    - Adding `alarm` and `power loss` to the error State

### Fixes

- **RP Mappings Groups** -- Ensured the ID of each individual row is unique, resolving a potential issue where Intent Verification rules might have incorrectly highlighted rows for certain datasets in the **Technology --> Multicast --> RP --> RP Mappings groups** table.

  !!! important

      If Intent Verification rules were configured for this table, you may need to manually unload and reload specific snapshots to ensure proper functionality.

- **NSX-T Rate Limiter** -- Fixed a bug where, in rare cases, NSX-T discovery issues occurred due to the NSX-T server becoming overloaded.
- **Juniper Mist API limitations** -- The Juniper Mist API client now uses a specific wait time from the controller's overloaded response, preventing session termination when the default 5000 calls per hour limit is reached.

### Beta Features

If you're interested in trying our new beta features, please contact your Customer Success Manager for assistance with enabling these features.

- **VeloCloud Discovery Enhancements**

  - Enhanced VeloCloud discovery with basic networking support, including:
    - `IPv4`
    - `IPv6`
    - `ARP`
    - `neighborDiscovery`
    - `fhrp`
    - `l2Interfaces`
    - `l3Interfaces`
    - `MAC`
    - `neighbors`
    - `portChannel`
    - `routingTable`
    - `stp`
    - `vlan`
  - New VeloCloud Overlay Table: `/tables/sdwan/velocloud/overlay`

- **Opengear Discovery**
  - Additional Opengear console servers can be discovered:
    - `ACM700x`
    - `CM71xx`
    - `CM81xx`
    - `OM12xx`
    - `OM22xx`
