---
description: In this section, you can find the release notes for v7.2 releases.
tags: ["draft"]
---

# IP Fabric v7.2

!!! danger "Unreleased Version"

    This is an upcoming IP Fabric version, which has not been released yet and
    is not available for download.

--8<-- "snippets/upgrade_version_policy.md"

--8<-- "snippets/clear_browser_cache.md"

## v7.2.0 (UNRELEASED)

### API Endpoints Deprecation

The below API endpoints have been marked as deprecated and the intention is to remove them in the next major version `8.0`.

- `/tables/networks/gatewayRedundancy`
- `/tables/networks/networks`

### System Administration UI Removal

The System Administration UI on port `8443` has been deprecated in version `7.0` and is no longer accessible. All its functionalities have been replaced by an alternative:

* [System Status](../../IP_Fabric_GUI/tips/system_status.md)
* [Backup and Maintenance](../../System_Administration/Command_Line_Interface/How_to/backup_restore_CLI.md)
* [System Update](../../System_Administration/system_update.md)
* [Restore Admin Access](../../System_Administration/IPF_CLI_Config/set_gui_admin_pass.md)

### New Features

#### Automated SSO

- We have developed a new script to simplify the SSO setup process for the IP
  Fabric application. More details can be found on the
  [Automated Single Sign-On (SSO)](../../IP_Fabric_Settings/administration/sso/#automated-sso-enablement-for-the-ipf-applicatio/)
  page.

#### Azure Network Load Balancers (NLB) support

- Data collection and end-to-end path lookup via NLB nodes are supported. However, path lookup via Azure private links is not supported yet.
  
  !!! warning "Do not forget to update IAM policy"

      To collect Azure Network Load Balancers, the corresponding IAM policy must be updated.
      You can download the new policy [here](../../IP_Fabric_Settings/Discovery_and_Snapshots/Discovery_Settings/Vendors_API/azure/azure-role-7_2.json).
  
### Improvements

#### GUI

- We have updated default tabs settings for consoleServer devices in Device Explorer:
  added Serial Ports, removed QoS, MAC and Port Channel. This resets previous tab settings for this device type.
- Edges in topology graphs now support multiple labels, which can be displayed either inline or on separate lines. These settings are customizable in the Visualization Setup panel of the Network Viewer, allowing configuration for each protocol or group type individually.
- Additional columns were added to **Inventory --> Interfaces** table, all hidden by default:
  - `Clearing Type`
  - `Clearing Value`
  - `Last Input Type`
  - `Last Input Value`
  - `Last Output Type`
  - `Last Output Value`

#### Discovery Settings

- Saving discovery settings with missing or expired credentials is now allowed. Users can decide whether the
  missing data is important for running the discovery or can add the data later. Clear messages and dialogs
  will inform users of any potential issues.

#### Vendor Support and Improvements

- Added Silver Peak API key authentication support.
- Added IPv6 BGP neighbors support for Arista (EOS), Cisco (IOS, IOS-XE, NX-OS), FS (FSOS), PaloAlto (PAN-OS).
- Added URL filtering support in firewall rules for Cisco (FTD), Fortinet (FortiGate), PaloAlto (PAN-OS).
- Added support for SR-MPLS TE with BGP On-Demand Next Hop (ODN) functionality for Cisco (IOS-XR).
- Added threat feeds support for FortiGate firewalls (IP lists only).
- The HP vendor has been renamed to HPE.
