---
description: In this section, you can find the release notes for `v7.3` releases.
---

# IP Fabric v7.3

!!! danger "Unreleased Version"

    This is an upcoming IP Fabric version, which has not been released yet and
    is not available for download.

--8<-- "snippets/upgrade_version_policy.md"

--8<-- "snippets/clear_browser_cache.md"

## v7.3.14 (July 10th, 2025; EA)

```
SHA256 (ipfabric-update-7-3-14+0.tar.zst.sig) = 1477bde8206beb2fa5250d93fd945ba9371600fd27d8416836196286abc03f76
MD5 (ipfabric-update-7-3-14+0.tar.zst.sig) = 418ed9ced8ad619a85c9678d71e458cf
SHA256 (ipfabric-7-3-14+0.qcow2) = fcdec24daf402f57710e5d31862ea9c873d7a4655f11f8ed910894d74d8e9ac5
MD5 (ipfabric-7-3-14+0.qcow2) = e0925e0452026ceae91aa3e3cdf7a179
SHA256 (ipfabric-7-3-14+0.vmdk) = 54d1f6b5ff3eb977dab5b88728c3768329e40f0e2f354bac815f6e294725a15d
MD5 (ipfabric-7-3-14+0.vmdk) = 264f73bd1cbc1cc617b27fa5ad233405
SHA256 (ipfabric-7-3-14+0.vhdx.zst) = 0096b8fe97c26c7a2617b72ce7a32c00de2ee011e997e90b1b072dd790b2aefa
MD5 (ipfabric-7-3-14+0.vhdx.zst) = bd12544fdd203a52a103f810f47a061b
SHA256 (unsupported-ESXi6.7U2-ipfabric-7-3-14+0.ova) = 06cc00196af1e1b852c9c47bceb81aa6a6979c9a159f7ea9154033f674e57020
MD5 (unsupported-ESXi6.7U2-ipfabric-7-3-14+0.ova) = 60be7030ab069626c6e500684756c824
SHA256 (unsupported-ESXi7.0-ipfabric-7-3-14+0.ova) = c80b3b4910047246640d85611c56f0ef8c3875aac8924ecea1b6d005abab4042
MD5 (unsupported-ESXi7.0-ipfabric-7-3-14+0.ova) = c8cffd0ac04a75441732d82c86d744c6
SHA256 (ESXi8.0-ipfabric-7-3-14+0.ova) = bb6899ad499a812ed7f0f6cfd6d0d74ca7f522439570a9cf87ef7c510b42ccae
MD5 (ESXi8.0-ipfabric-7-3-14+0.ova) = e01a3085b075f6dccf09daa620757dfa
```

### Fixes

#### Configuration Management Process Fails to Close SSH Sessions

Since `7.3.13`, the Configuration Management process for HPE `arubasw` devices now properly terminates SSH connections and correctly detects login banners.

## v7.3.11 (June 12th, 2025; EA)

#### IP addresses entered in the Settings UI may not be saved in some cases

When entering IP addresses in the Settings UI, changes will only be saved if you click the **Add to list** button next to the input field or press the **Enter** key. Although a red validation message appears below the field, it does not prevent the UI from saving the settings—however, any IP addresses not added to the list will be omitted. This issue affects all input fields that accept IP addresses.

### New Features

#### IPv6 Discovery Support

Extended network discovery capabilities to support IPv6 networks alongside IPv4, ensuring all existing IPv4 functionality remains unaffected.

##### Backward Compatibility

- Existing IPv4 discovery workflows continue to function as expected.
- No changes are required for IPv4-only setups.

##### API Enhancements

- The `/settings` API now accepts and processes **IPv6 addresses** in:
  - Seed lists
  - Include/Exclude/Whitelist networks
  - Device credentials
  - Custom SSH/Telnet ports
- Address-type validation ensures that:
  - IPv4 filters apply only to IPv4 addresses
  - IPv6 filters apply only to IPv6 addresses

##### Discovery Configuration Updates

- Introduced a new task type: `NDPv6`, available under **Global Discovery Tasks** settings.
- IPv6 networks can now be discovered using a combination of:
  - Seed addresses
  - Include/Exclude/Whitelist networks
  - Device credentials

#### Automated SSO

- We have developed a new script to simplify the SSO setup process for the IP Fabric application. More details can be found on the
  [Automated Single Sign-On (SSO)](../../IP_Fabric_Settings/administration/sso.md/#automated-sso-enablement-for-the-ipf-application) page.

### Improvements

#### Technology Tables

##### New Tables

A new **Virtual-wires** table has been added under **Technology → Interfaces**, supporting:

- Palo Alto PAN-OS
- Cisco Firepower
- Fortinet FortiGate / FortiOS
- Forcepoint NGFW

##### New Columns

The following tables have been updated with new columns:

- **Inventory** --> **Interfaces** table:
  - `Last Status Change`
- **Inventory** --> **Devices** table:
  - `Login IPv4`
  - `Login IPv6`
  - `Switch stack`
- **Technology → Interfaces → Switchport** table:
  - `Virtual Bridge`
- **Technology → Addressing → MAC Table** table:
  - `Virtual Bridge`
- **Management** --> **Discovery History** table:
  - `Login IPv4`
  - `Login IPv6`
- **Management** --> **Changes** table:
  - `Login IPv4`
  - `Login IPv6`
- **Management** --> **Changes** --> **Managed IP** table:
  - `IPv4 Address`
  - `IPv6 Address`
- **Management** --> **Saved config consistency** table:
  - `Login IPv4`
  - `Login IPv6`
- **Technology** --> **Platforms** --> **Cisco VSS** --> **Chassis** table:
  - `Switch Priority`
- **Technology** --> **Management** --> **Telnet access** table:
  - `Login IPv4`
  - `Login IPv6`
- **Technology** --> **Management** --> **Logging** --> **Remote** table:
  - `Host IPv4`
  - `Host IPv6`
  - `Src Address IPv4`
  - `Src Address IPv6`
- **Technology** --> **Management** --> **NTP** --> **Sources** table:
  - `Source IPv4`
  - `Source IPv6`
- **Technology** --> **Management** --> **SNMP** --> **Trap Hosts** table:
  - `Destination Host IPv4`
  - `Destination Host IPv6`
  - `Source IPv4`
  - `Source IPv6`
- **Technology** --> **Security** --> **AAA** --> **Servers** table:
  - `Server IPv4`
  - `Server IPv6`
  - `Source IPv4`
  - `Source IPv6`
- **Discovery Snapshot** --> **Connectivity Report** table:
  - `IPv4`
  - `IPv6`

##### Deprecated  Columns

The following columns are now marked as deprecated:

- **Inventory** --> **Devices** --> `Login IP`
- **Management** --> **Discovery History** --> `Login IP`
- **Management** --> **Changes** --> `Login IP`
- **Management** --> **Changes** --> **Managed IP** --> `IP Address`
- **Management** --> **Saved config consistency** --> `Login IP`
- **Technology** --> **Management** --> **Telnet access** --> `Login IP`
- **Discovery Snapshot** --> **Connectivity Report** --> `IP`

!!! warning "Login IP Deprecation"

    The Login IP (`loginIp`) column is being deprecated and replaced with `loginIpv4` and `loginIpv6`.
    Please ensure all scripts, automations, or reports are properly updated to reflect this change.

##### Deprecated  Tables

<!-- WE DO NOT REMOVE TABLES OUTSIDE MAJOR RELEASES FIXME -->

- Removed tables of already deprecated API endpoints:
  - `Managed Networks`
  - `Gateway Redundancy`

!!! info "IPv4 Managed IP Summary table"

    As of version `7.0`, the Managed Networks and Gateway Redundancy tables have been replaced by the [IPv4 Managed IP Summary table](../../IP_Fabric_GUI/technology_tables/addressing/ipv4-managed-ip-summary.md).

#### GUI

IP Input Enhancement:

- **Search Functionality**: Users can perform keyword-based searches within the IP list to quickly locate specific entries.
- **IP List Management**: Users can efficiently manage IP addresses through enhanced multi-selection capabilities. Multiple IPs can be selected via:
  - `Shift + Left Click` to select range.
  - `Click-and-Drag`, similar to text selection in a paragraph. 
  - Once selected, IP addresses can be copied or removed from the list.

#### Layout Optimization for Large Circular Graphs

In release `7.2`, we added an autonomous optimization switch from circular to universal layout for graphs with more than 100 nodes. This functionality
is now fully supported at the API level and is also fully integrated into the UI starting with this release.

#### Configuration Management

- Simplified configuration selection for comparison.
- Added a new `Compare with previous version` button to configuration entries in the table.

#### Network Discovery

- **New Device -- AWS Application Load Balancer (ALB)**
  - Initial support for data collection & inventory. The path lookup via ALB is not supported yet.

- **New Device -- Azure ExpressRoute Circuit (ERC)**
  - Data collection and end-to-end path lookup via ERC is now supported. The path lookup via ERC when deployed in vWAN is not supported yet.

- **New Device -- Azure RouteServer (ARS)**
  - Initial support for data collection & inventory - end-to-end path lookup via Network Virtual Appliances has been improved.

- **New Capabilities -- Arista**
  - Support for route-maps has been added.

- **New Capabilities -- CheckPoint, Juniper**
  - Support for URL filtering has been added.

- **New Capabilities -- PaloAlto (PAN-OS)**
  - Support for IP and PREDEFINED-IP type objects of `External Dynamic List` [has been added](#palo-alto-external-dynamic-lists).

- **New Device -- Meraki Cloud-managed Catalyst Switches**
  - Now discoverable via the Meraki API  
  - Identification: Firmware prefix `CS` and Monitoring Version (if present) must not be `1` - as `1` indicates the device in monitor-only mode.  
  - Discovery can be disabled via [feature flags](../../System_Administration/Command_Line_Interface/Feature_Flags.md#meraki-catalyst-switches-discovery).

#### Path Lookup

- Using Palo Alto's `External Dynamic List` in combination with end-to-end path lookup:
  - To investigate a Path Lookup scenario for a specific IP expected to be in the dynamic list, use the `Source / Destination IP fields` and enter the IP address.
  - If the content of the dynamic list is not available, or if you need to find where a specific list is being used, use the `Source / Destination Region fields`
and enter the name of the list as it appears in the configuration.

#### Vendor Support and Improvements

- Interface uptime/downtime is now available for **Arista** located in the new `Last Status Change` (`lastStatusChange`) column in the **Inventory** > **Interfaces** table.
- Switch priority is now available for **Cisco** **StackWise** located in the new `Switch Priority` (`switchPriority`) **Technology** --> **Platforms** --> **Cisco VSS** --> **Chassis** table.
- Added IPv6 support for the FortiGate zone firewall task.
- Added IPv6 support for FortiGate GRE tunnels.
- Added IPv6 support for the Cisco ACI, ASA, IOS, and IOS-XE NTP task.
- Added IPv6 support for the Cisco IOS, IOS-XE, and ASA Syslog task.
- Added IPv6 support for the Cisco IOS, IOS-XE, and ASA AAA task.
- Added IPv6 support for the Cisco IOS, IOS-XE, and ASA SNMP task.
- Added IPv6 support for the Cisco ASA Neighbor Discovery task.
- Added IPv6 support for Cisco ASA IPv6 routing.
- Added IPv6 support for Cisco ASA IPv6 tunnels.
- Added IPv6 support for Cisco ASA, IOS, and IOS-XE IPv6 IPsec.
- New `Switch stack` column added in **Inventory** --> **Devices** to show if switch is considered as stack
- Added ARP table support for Meraki L3 switches.
- Improved STP support for Meraki switches.

#### Advanced Filters

- **Device Attribute-Based Advanced Filters**
now support **Uptime** as a device property.
- For a complete list of properties and supported tables, refer to [Technology Tables -- Device-Based Advanced Filters](../../IP_Fabric_GUI/technology_tables/index.md#device-based-advanced-filters).

#### Intent Verification Rules

##### Updated Rules

- Minor UI updates to remove the Green Success check from empty columns and to revise field descriptions.:
  - *Technology > Security > DHCP Snooping*
    - **DHCP Snooping Enabled VLANs**
    - **DHCP Snooping Trusted Port**
    - **DHCP Snooping Dropped Packets**
  - *Inventory > OS Versions > Platforms*
    - **Devices with Unique Platform** changed to **Platforms with a Single Deployment**
    - **Devices with Unique OS** changed to **OS Versions with a Single Deployment**
  - *Inventory > OS Versions > Models*
    - **Devices with Unique Model** changed to **Models with a Single Deployment**
  - *Technology > Management > Port Mirroring > Port Mirroring* - **Port Mirroring Status**
  - *Technology > MPLS > L2 VPN > Circuit cross-connect*
    - **CCC state** changed to **Circuit Cross-Connect State**
  - *Technology > SDWAN > Versa > Sites*
    - **SDWAN Sites Uptime** changed to **Versa SDWAN Sites Uptime**
- *Technology > Spanning Tree > STP Inconsistencies > Neighbor ports allowed VLAN mismatch* - **Trunk Allowed VLAN Mismatch**
  - Removed Green Success check as this rule is not applicable.
- *Technology > FHRP > Group state* - **FHRP Active Group Priority**
  - Adjusted `active` FHRP groups to include `master` for support on Aruba and Arista devices.
- *Technology > Platforms > Environment > Power Supplies* - **Power-Supply State**
  - Adjusted Red Error states to include power supplies with a `bad` state.
- *Technology > Platforms > Environment > Fans* - **Fan Module State**
  - Adjusted Green Success states to include fan modules that contain an `ok -` state.
- *Inventory > Interfaces* - **Interface Operational State**
  - Green Success - Default which should match normal states.
  - Blue Info - Layer 2 states of `unknown` (i.e. IP Fabric is unable to discover states on some Meraki devices.)
  - Amber Warning - Interfaces with Layer 1 state matching regex `up|enabled`  and Layer 2 state of `down` without `monitoring` status reason.
- *Technology > Addressing > MAC Table > MAC Table* - **MAC Address Source**
  - Green Success - Added `igmp` to the list of acceptable source types.
  - Blue Info and Amber Warning have been swapped so static MAC address types report as Info instead of Warning.
  - Blue Info - Added `svi`, `permanent`, and `management` to the list of acceptable source types.

##### New Rules

- SDWAN Uptime Verifications:
  - Rules:
    - *Technology > SDWAN > Silverpeak > Overlay* - **Silverpeak Overlay Uptime**
    - *Technology > SDWAN > Viptela > Control Connections* - **Viptela Control Connections Uptime**
    - *Technology > SDWAN > VeloCloud > Overlay* - **VeloCloud Overlay Uptime**
  - Green Success - `1 year >= uptime >= 1 week`
  - Blue Info - `uptime > 1 year`
  - Amber Warning - `uptime < 1 week`
  - Red Error - `uptime < 1 day`
- SDWAN Status Verifications:
  - Rules:
    - *Technology > SDWAN > Silverpeak > Overlay* - **Silverpeak Overlay Status**
    - *Technology > SDWAN > Silverpeak > Underlay* - **Silverpeak Underlay Status**
  - Green Success - Status that is Up Active or Up Idle
  - Blue Info - Status that is Down or other statuses
  - Amber Warning - Status that is Up but with IP SLA Disabled or Reduced Functionality
  - Red Error - Status that is Down and Misconfigured
- Load Balancing Availability Verifications:
  - Rules:
    - *Technology > Load-balancing > Virtual Servers* - **Load Balancing Virtual Server Availability**
    - *Technology > Load-balancing > Virtual Servers* - Pool members - **Load Balancing Pool Member Availability**
  - Green Success - Up Availability and Enabled status
  - Blue Info - All other statuses.
  - Amber Warning - Down Availability and Enabled status
- *Technology > Management > AAA > Password Strength* - **Password Strength Enabled**
  - Green Success - Check is enabled on supported platforms
  - Amber Warning - Check is not enabled  on supported platforms

### Experimental Features

Newly added features which need to be explicitly enabled in service files. You can enable these yourself using our [feature documentation](../../System_Administration/Command_Line_Interface/Feature_Flags.md) or if you are not comfortable self-enabling these features or need further clarification, contact our Support or Solution Architect team. We will gladly help you.


#### Cisco ACI Service Graphs Improvements

The path lookup capability for Layer 2 (L2) has been added to Cisco ACI Service Graphs.

To collect Service Graph data, the feature flag `ENABLE_ACI_SERVICEGRAPHS_ENDPOINTS` must be enabled. For more information, see [feature flag documentation](../../System_Administration/Command_Line_Interface/Feature_Flags.md#aci-service-graphs).

#### Palo Alto External Dynamic Lists

The ingestion of Palo Alto's External Dynamic Lists for URL Filtering and IP Lists is currently available as an experimental feature.

To access this functionality, respective [feature flags](../../System_Administration/Command_Line_Interface/Feature_Flags.md#palo-alto-external-dynamic-lists) must be enabled. (`ENABLE_PALOALTO_EDL_IPLIST` and `ENABLE_PALOALTO_EDL_URLLIST`).

#### Transparent Firewalls

Initial support for **transparent firewalls** has been introduced. Since transparent firewalls typically operate at Layer 2 and remain **invisible to other network devices**,
manual link configuration is required to incorporate them into the network model.

To enable this feature, the corresponding [feature flag](../../System_Administration/Command_Line_Interface/Feature_Flags.md#enable-manual-links-transparent-firewall) (`ENABLE_MANUAL_LINKS`) must be activated.

Once enabled, transparent firewalls will appear in the **graph topology**, and **basic path lookup** (excluding security policy evaluation) will be supported.

!!! info "Visualization Setup"

    In case that you want to edit **Manual Link Protocol Settings** --> **Line Cap Label** field, it incorrectly permits IP address selection.
