---
description: In this section, you can find the release notes for `v7.4` releases.
tags: ["draft"]
---

# IP Fabric `v7.4`

!!! danger "Unreleased Version"

    This is an upcoming IP Fabric version, which has not been released yet and
    is not available for download.

--8<-- "snippets/upgrade_version_policy.md"

--8<-- "snippets/clear_browser_cache.md"

## `v7.4.0` (UNRELEASED)

### Improvements

#### GUI

- File names of exported graphs were improved. Instead of naming all files `graph`, the file name
  now consists of basic view information (saved view name, site name or path lookup IPs) and a timestamp.
- The attribute filter in the header now displays attributes and values from all loaded snapshots, clearly
  marking those that are not present in the currently selected snapshot. This change eliminates various glitches
  when a different snapshot is selected while having the attribute filter active.
- The "Snapshot Retention" page has been renamed to "Snapshot Collection," with a corresponding URL update. This change more accurately reflects the content and purpose of the pages.

#### Network Discovery

#### Vendor Support and Improvements

- **STP per-VLAN (1x1) mode support** -- Added support for **Spanning Tree Protocol in per-VLAN (1x1)** mode on **Alcatel OmniSwitch** devices.
- Added support for the FortiGate AAA task.
- Added support for the FortiGate OSPFv3 task.
- Added support for the Cisco ACI AAA task.
- Added support for the Cisco ACI SNMP task.
- Added IPv6 support for the Cisco IOS-XE IS-IS task.
- Added IPv6 support for the Cisco ASA BGP Neighbors task.
- Added support for multi-segment routing for VeloCloud (only IPv4).
- Added support for the MAC address table on Meraki switches. 
- Added mapping for STP port statuses on Meraki switches.

#### Configuration Management

- Configuration Management now fully supports IPv6-configured devices with all available functionalities.

### Other Changes

- Removed feature flag `ENABLE_ACI_FVTENANT`
