---
description: In this section, you can find the release notes for `v7.6` releases.
---

# IP Fabric v7.6

--8<-- "snippets/upgrade_version_policy.md"

--8<-- "snippets/clear_browser_cache.md"

## Known Issues

There are currently no known issues in IP Fabric version 7.6.

## v7.6.1 (October 27th, 2025, Private Release)

### Potential Race Conditions and File Conflicts During Upgrade

A race condition in the appliance upgrade process could cause misleading error messages during upgrades.
We also fixed cases where upgrades could fail due to configuration files that had been incorrectly created or modified in the past.
Both issues are now resolved and should no longer occur.

### Removal of ArangoDB

ArangoDB has been completely removed in this release, including all related dependencies and custom configuration options.

### New Features

#### System upgrade via CLI

A new command-line tool `/opt/ipf-system-upgrade/bin/cli` now enables performing system upgrades in the same way as through the web interface.

### Improvements

#### API logging

The `ipf-api` component now writes logs to `/var/log/ipf/ipf-api/` instead of forwarding them to syslog.

#### Improved PostgreSQL Migration Process

We have addressed edge cases where PostgreSQL might not have been configured correctly during upgrades.
Additional checks and safeguards now ensure consistent and reliable system configuration.
The installation process has also been improved to better handle dependencies between the product and PostgreSQL.

#### Simplified TechSupport Exports

Logs from cloud-init are now excluded from TechSupport exports.

#### Additional Disk-space Checks During Upgrade

Added a pre-upgrade check for available disk space to prevent the appliance from running out of space during an upgrade.

#### Jumphost Logs Included in TechSupport Exports

The `ipf-jumphost` service, which has logged to `/var/log/ipf/ipf-jumphost/` since release 7.0 to keep its logs separate from system logs, now includes
these logs in TechSupport exports to assist with troubleshooting.

#### Upgraded NodeJS to v22.19.0

All JavaScript services are now running on a version `v22.19.0` of NodeJS.

#### Credentials to access a database and RabbitMQ moved out of the built code

Previously, due to how application configuration was handled via the JSON file, several credentials were embedded
directly into the built JavaScript code. This is no longer the case — these credentials are now automatically
generated and provided through environment variables. The default guest account for RabbitMQ has been removed.
Only internal, non-management accounts are now used for communication between the application and the broker.


### API Changes

#### Endpoint payload size limit

The payload size limit has been introduced with a default of 20 MB, except for the following endpoints with their respective limits:

- `/appliance-configuration/import` -> 100 MB
- `/extensions/docker-image` -> 2 GB
- `/extensions/docker-zip` -> 10 GB
- `/licenses/upload` -> 5 MB
- `/snapshots/upload` -> 10 GB
- `/graphs/vsdx` -> 25 MB
- `/os/upload-nimpee-cert` -> 5 MB
- `PATCH /settings` -> 100 MB

#### RBAC

The built-in RBAC policy `others` (ID: read) has been renamed for greater clarity.
Despite its ID, this policy also allows write operations for saved filters and graphs.

### Other Changes

- The system status page is now accessible only after login.
- The license upload endpoint is now protected by authentication and accessible only to admin users.
- When a user changes their password, all active sessions for that user are invalidated.
- Session token is now invalidated upon logout.
