---
description: In this section, you can find the release notes for `v8.0` releases.
tags: ["draft"]
---

# IP Fabric `v8.0`
!!! danger "Unreleased Version"

    This is an upcoming IP Fabric version, which has not been released yet and
    is not available for download.

--8<-- "snippets/upgrade_version_policy.md"

--8<-- "snippets/clear_browser_cache.md"

## `v8.0.0` (UNRELEASED)

### Breaking Changes

!!! warning "Automation Concerns"

    Please ensure all scripts, automations, or reports are properly updated to reflect these change.

#### Column Updates

In IP Fabric `v7.3`, we introduced [new columns separating the IPv4 and IPv6 Login IP addresses](7.3.md#new-columns).

In the `v8.0` release the following columns will report either the IPv4 and IPv6 addresses based on the discovered device's IP version
instead of only reporting the IPv4 address.
This change will change the type of data to a simple text string that does not support CIDR or IP filtering.

Affected columns:

- **Inventory** --> **Devices** --> `Login IP`
- **Management** --> **Discovery History** --> `Login IP`
- **Management** --> **Changes** --> `Login IP`
- **Management** --> **Changes** --> **Managed IP** --> `IP Address`
- **Management** --> **Saved config consistency** --> `Login IP`
- **Technology** --> **Management** --> **Telnet access** --> `Login IP`
- **Discovery Snapshot** --> **Connectivity Report** --> `IP`

After this change if an **Intent Rule** is using one of these columns it will be **automatically exported** to a file and the rule will be deleted.
We expect that this change does not affect most customers. 
If you are using these columns please contact your Solution Architect or Support and they can assist you in restoring the rules.

#### Vendor Support and Improvements

- Added support for GCP Interconnect.

### Other Changes

- The Feature Flag `ENABLE_ACI_SERVICEGRAPHS_ENDPOINTS` has been removed, and endpoints related to service graphs are now always downloaded.

