# IP Fabric Web Certificate

!!! important

    Only CSR generated by the IP Fabric can be signed, uploaded and used as
    an SSL certificate. No other certificate will be applied.

IP Fabric uses a secure TLS connection to access the user interface. A
self-signed certificate is generated during the installation process,
but by the nature of SSL/TLS, the self-signed certificate cannot be
trusted as indicated in a SSL/TLS error in the web browser (for
example `NET::ERR_CERT_AUTHORITY_INVALID` in Google
Chrome).

We recommend that you replace the self-signed certificate with your own
certificate that is signed by a trusted certification authority.

To do this you have to:

1. generate a certificate signing request (CSR) in the IP Fabric
2. sign the generated signing request with a trusted certification authority
3. upload the signed certificate back to IP Fabric

## Generate Certificate Signing Request (CSR)

1. Go to *Settings → Advanced → System → IP Fabric Certificate*.
2. Fill in *Create a CSR (Certificate Signing Request)* form.

!!! note Subject Alternative Name

    Short Subject Alternative Names (only hostnames without a domain name)
    are not accepted by all CAs. To remove it from the CSR use
    the *Include DNS short name in CSR SAN* toggle.

## Sign CSR

This step depends on the vendor and particular version of your
certification authority so check the vendor's documentation.

## Upload signed certificate

!!! warning

    Only PEM (Base 64 encoded) certificate format is supported.

!!! warning

    Only a certificate that was created by signing the last CSR request can
    be uploaded to IP Fabric! If you generate another CSR before uploading
    previously generated and signed CSR, the certificate will not be
    applied.

1. Go to **\*Settings → Advanced → System → IP Fabric Certificate**.\*
2. Click **_Upload_** (the right upper corner)
3. **_Drag and drop_** certificate or **_Select file_**
4. The IP Fabric web can be unresponsive for a few seconds while a new
   certificate is being installed
5. Close your browser and re-open IP Fabric web UI

!!! note

    If you are signing an SSL certificate by a certificate authority that
    also has intermediate certificates, the whole certificate chain needs to
    be included in the final certificate uploaded to IP Fabric in one
    continuous file.

    ```
      ----- BEGIN base64server certificate END -----

      ----- BEGIN base64intermediate certificate END -----

      ----- BEGIN base64root certificate END -----
    ```
