---
description: A description of Panorama by Palo Alto Networks next-generation firewalls.
---

# Panorama

Panorama is a centralized management system that provides global
visibility and control over multiple Palo Alto Networks next-generation
firewalls through an easy-to-use web-based interface. Panorama enables
administrators to view aggregate or device-specific application, user,
and content data and manage multiple Palo Alto Networks firewalls—all
from a central location.

Large enterprises commonly have many firewalls deployed throughout their
organization and more often than not, the process of managing and
controlling them is cumbersome due to management complexities and
inconsistencies between the individual devices and centralized
management interfaces. The result is an increase in administrative
efforts and associated costs.

Panorama provides centralized management and visibility of Palo Alto
Networks next-generation firewalls. From a central location,
administrators can gain insight into applications, users, and content
traversing the firewalls. The knowledge of what is on the network, in
conjunction with safe application enablement policies, maximizes
protection and control while minimizing administrative effort.
Administrators can centrally perform analysis, reporting, and forensics
with the aggregated data over time, or on data stored on the local
firewall.

Panorama shares the exact same web-based look and feels like the
individual hardware and virtual form-factor firewalls, minimizing any
learning curve or delay in executing the task at hand. Palo Alto
Networks adheres to a management philosophy that emphasizes consistency,
providing a significant advantage over competitive offerings.

**Panorama provides centralized policy and device management over a
network of Palo Alto Networks™ next-generation firewalls.**

- View a graphical summary of the applications on the network, the
  respective users, and the potential security impact.

- Deploy corporate policies centrally to be used in conjunction with
  local policies for maximum flexibility.

- Delegate appropriate levels of administrative control at the device
  level or globally with role-based management.

- Centrally analyze, investigate and report on network traffic,
  security incidents and administrative modifications.

Source :
[https://www.paloguard.com/](https://www.paloguard.com/Panorama.asp#:~:text=Panorama%20is%20a%20centralized%20management,to%20use%20web%2Dbased%20interface.&text=From%20a%20central%20location%2C%20administrators,and%20content%20traversing%20the%20firewalls.)
