---
description: In this section, you can find the release notes for v4.3 releases.
---

# IP Fabric v4.3

## 4.3.5+1 (9th March 2022)

### Bug Fixes

- Routing protocol edges wrong establish to transit fix

### Known issues

- Discovery with added Vendor API can get stuck and doesn’t finish in some cases. Replicated on NSX-T v2.5, Azure, Meraki

  - ID: NIM-7505, NIM-7479, NIM-7437
  - Root cause: Unlocked resources after calling unsupported API endpoint
  - Status: Fixed in 4.4.0 release
  - Workaround: Stop discovery and disable Vendor API

- When discovery is stopped after collection from devices is done, API will allow other jobs to run - making them run in parallel. It is especially an issue when running maintenance is started immediately because it re-indexes the DB - making caching take really long time.

  - ID: NIM-7722
  - Root cause: Discovery allows to run parallel jobs.
  - Status: Fixed in 4.4.0 release
  - Workaround: Do not stop discovery job or do not run maintenance (manually or as a scheduled job).

## 4.3.4+3 (7rd March 2022)

```
OVA MD5SUM: A5DB9B8C51169216167866C9AD6E951C
OVA SHA256SUM: 2D64A41DF78D3965F70AD80807D788FD12E0F7A1DDCF39A6B23911BF72A8311D
```

### Bug Fixes

- Internet proxy was not working - fixed now
- Snapshot load with F5 device could fail on JSON error. This was hard
  to replicate, happened only occasionally. Fix should work.
- Fortinet FortiGate - fix `get system status` command parsing to
  handle operating system versions without any maintenance ID
- L2 edges from switch to firewall - Multiple wrong edges were created
  because of same virtual mac address on Juniper SRX firewalls (could
  be also case for other vendors). This could cause too problems with
  graph cache calculations. Fixed and firewalls with same virtual mac
  are in different sites, L2 edges will be established properly.
- L2 edges for back-to-back connections - fix for non matching
  switchport modes.
- HP Comware -- fix parsing of Route-Aggregation interfaces.
- HP 3Com - fixed parsing of `display device manuinfo` command
- Duplicate IP on same device on different subinterfaces and different
  sites -- establishing forwarding and routing protocols sessions is
  fixed.
- Some topology calculation speed ups for networks with many routing
  protocols sessions
- Pathlookup - Routing with OIDs, skip checking underlying L2 path
- Fix parsing Virtual Servers and Pool members with routing domains
  and `any` ports.
- VMWare NSX-T -- fixed mapping of empty mac-table
- Error when opening Intent Rule verification in End Of Life
  Milestones page fix
- Arista -- fixed parsing of platform
- Fixed possible crash in syslog worker when collecting device
  configurations
- Fixed POST `/snapshots` endpoint, it failed when `snapshotName` or
  `snapshotNote` was used
- The site names could be wrong when the manual site separation rule
  was disabled - fixed
- Fix load of graph views

## 4.3.3+2 (23rd February 2022)

### Bug Fixes

- Snapshot load time - data preparation before the process started was
  slow, fixed and speed is same as before
- Snapshot settings could overwrite global settings
- Migration of very old snapshot fix

## 4.3.2+2 (22nd February 2022)

### Bug Fixes

- Palo Alto - Fixed discovery of multi vsys firewalls.
- Mikrotik RouterOS - Fixed parsing of MTU in case it has value "auto"
  in output of command `/interface print detail`
- Fortinet FortiGate - Fixed wrongly assigned MAC address to link
  aggregation interfaces on HA primary units
- Jumphost - Jumphost was broken in 4.3.0 release, fixed.
- Graphs - Fail on hidden transit or clouds fixed.
- `/platforms/vdc/devices` table fail when snHw column was included

### Improvements

- Check Point Gaia - improved pairing of gateways with management
  server data to fix missing zone firewall policies

## 4.3.1+1 (17th February 2022)

```
OVA MD5SUM: 0ab89eb2127d5a83f806876b438dcd95
OVA SHA256SUM: 3d07c8f1a51497eae671a43130cbf536b7e7bdf9ae6ba9030ebc50c981328119
```

### Bug Fixes

- Missing hostname on Cisco devices with non standard transceivers

### Features - Protocol and technology support

- HP ArubaCX - Added syslog support

## 4.3.0+4 (16th February 2022)

### New Vendor Support

- Added support for [Microsoft Azure Cloud
  infrastructure](../../../../settings/Discovery_and_Snapshots/Discovery_Settings/Vendors_API/Azure_Networking.md)
- Added support for [Silverpeak SD-WAN networks](../../../../settings/Discovery_and_Snapshots/Discovery_Settings/Vendors_API/Silver_Peak_SD-WAN.md)
- Added support for [VMware NSX-T](../../../../settings/Discovery_and_Snapshots/Discovery_Settings/Vendors_API/VMware_NSX-T.md)
- Added support for Brocade FastIron

### New Features

- Added Single sign-on (SSO), read how to set it up [Enabling SSO
  Providers](../../../../settings/administration/sso.md)
- Device Attributes - the table is located in Settings / Device
  Attributes, where you can set attribute per device (SN) and the
  value for a specific attribute. [Device
  Attributes](../../../../settings/Discovery_and_Snapshots/Global_Configuration/device_attributes.md). We support following attributes

  - `siteName` - set a site name (location) for a specific
    device and in case you have enabled the
    _Manual site separation_ rule in Site Separation settings
    then the name will be used in future snapshots for that
    device.

  - `stpDomain` - set a name of the STP domain for a specific
    device and this domain name will be used in future snapshots
    for that device. But also other members that belong to the
    same STP domain and don't have an attribute set will be
    moved there automatically.

  - `routingDomain` - same as STP domain, but for Routing domain

- Added support for [AWS Assume
  Role](../../../../settings/Discovery_and_Snapshots/Discovery_Settings/Vendors_API/AWS_Amazon_Web_Services.md)
  that can be configured in Vendor API settings

- Graphs - Path Lookup - Added simulation for Cloud / SD-WAN networks.
  Simulate packets between legacy and next-gen networks!

- Graphs - Path Lookup - Added detection of packets in the loop - the
  option is on Visualization Setup.

- Graphs - Path Lookup - The packet can be traced hop by hop in "Show
  Detail" by Next/Prev buttons

- Graphs - Path Lookup - added more options into path lookup form like
  L7 applications, ICMP options, IP Regions, TTL, and everything can
  be saved to setting preset

- Graphs - Path Lookup - added "First hop algorithm" option, this will
  allow you to simulate external networks by specifying where the
  packet should start (device/interface)

  - unfortunately, all the above Path lookup changes cause a
    breaking change in the API request payload.

  - See [Tech Notes for Path Lookup](../../../../api/Path_Lookup/index.md)

### Features - Protocol and technology support

- HP ArubaCX - Implement IGMP/PIM
- F5 BigIP - Added support for virtual servers and pools. New tables
  added:

  - Technology / Load-balancing / Virtual Servers
  - Technology / Load-balancing / Virtual Servers Pools
  - Technology / Load-balancing / Virtual Servers - Pool members
  - Technology / Load-balancing / F5 Partitions

- Added new table Technology/ Port channels / MLAG / Cisco VPC
- Extreme Xos - Added POE support

### Improvements

- [Site Separation](../../../../settings/Discovery_and_Snapshots/Discovery_Settings/site_separation.md) has been rewritten, it respects Device Attributes
  (see New Features)
  - there was added an algorithm to determine the site name based on
    SNMP location.
  - also added an option that will try to assign devices without
    site name to the site based on device neighborship.
- Discovery classification improved - only IP addresses with
  interfaces in UP state go to the discovery process.
- Router to switch connection with some members of port-channel in
  state down could prevent STP edge establishment.
- Updated EoL information for F5
- Router with no VLAN tag on the interface to ACI leaf connection over
  L2 with xDP added.
- Table Technology / Security / IPsec / IPsec tunnels - add new column
  "Tunnel interface description"
- Table Technology / Addressing / Manage IP - add new columns
  "Interfaces L1 state", "Interfaces L2 state"
- Table Technology / Security / DMVPN - add interface column
- Zone Firewall and Access lists security tables are now broken to
  rule level with columns that are string searchable for all values
  (some of the columns are hidden by default). Tables also allow the
  application of intent checks.
  - Table Technology / Security / Access lists
  - Table Technology / Security / Zone firewall
- The date and time values are now displayed in ISO8601 format
- Cisco Firepower - Change collecting data to use FMC API and add
  support for application rules: More [Dropping support for ACL on
  Cisco Firepower](../../../../support/known_issues/Vendors/cisco/Dropping_support_for_ACL_on_Cisco_Firepower.md)
- Added API endpoint POST `/v1/tables/management/snapshots` for the
  possibility to get information about all snapshots (loaded,
  unloaded) via [API](../../../../api/Path_Lookup/index.md)
- Path Lookup inspector - cosmetic improvement of ACI endpoint lookup
  reporting
- Path Lookup - Forwarding for explicit label 0 fix
- Check Point Gaia - added collecting of static ARP
- Cisco - IOS, IOS-XE, IOS-XR, NX-OS and Juniper JunOS - change BGP
  route max threshold evaluation to be done on a per VRF basis.
- Extreme XOS - Added new reason of disabled port `port not present`
- Fortinet FortiGate - configured virtual IPs and IP pools were
  missing in the list of managed IP addresses

### Bug Fixes

- If Snapshot Settings had stored credentials without username
  then credentials from the Global setting were taken
- Graph - The detail for XDP link between two devices could include
  records that pointed from one device to the Transit cloud.
- Table Management / Changes - fixed export of CSV that didn't work
- Table Technology / MPLS / Forwarding - nexthop label 0 value was not
  previously shown. Fixed now
- Arista EOS - Fix parsing of the routing table.
- Arista EOS - fix subinterfaces parsing from command `show ip ospf neighbor detail`
- Arista Eos- Fix parsing of command `show lldp neighbors detail`.
- AWS - Fix mapping of `aws/_ec2/describeRouteTables`
- AWS - Fix parsing for a command that shows tunnelOptions which can
  be empty.
- Checkpoint Gaia - Fix parsing for Alias interfaces.
- Checkpoint Gaia - Fix parsing for command `show cluster members interfaces all`.
- Checkpoint Gaia - Fix parsing for empty management interface entry.
- CheckPoint Gaia - collect only relevant SNMP configuration according
  to agent version
- Checkpoint Gaia - Fix parsing for command `show ospf interfaces detailed`
- CheckPoint Gaia - fixed error when only a virtual IP was assigned on
  an interface
- CheckPoint Gaia - fixed missing zone firewall policies on gateways
  with VPN tunnel interfaces
- CheckPoint Gaia - fixed parsing of physical interfaces from command
  `show cluster members interfaces all`
- Cisco - fixed PID parsing for nonstandard Cisco transceivers from
  command `show inventory`
- Cisco - Fix duplicate entries for lldp and cdp discovery.
- Cisco - Fix parsing of nexthop list from routing table
- Cisco - IOS/IOS-XE fixed parsing of `show ip mroute count` command
- Cisco ASA - the discovery of firewall contexts fixed
- Cisco ASA - fixed MTUs and IP addresses parsing on tunnels.
- Cisco ASA - fixed parsing of named ip addresses from `show running-config`
- Cisco IOS - add support for portgroups in ACL
- Cisco IOS - fix N/A value in current traffic from command `show storm-control`
- Cisco IOS - Fix parsing of speed, duplex and tunnel type.
- Cisco IOS - fix state when two (current and trap) are outputed in
  command `show storm-control`
- Cisco IOS - fixed parsing of tunnels in case source/destination IP
  address is missing
- Cisco IOS - Remove emitting error for bgp neighbors in state 'idle'
- Cisco IOS-XE - Add missing vlanId for the command `show interfaces`.
- Cisco IOS-XE - added support for another output format of the `show env/environment status` command
- Cisco IOS-XE - Fix parsing for no transceivers in command `show interfaces transceiver`
- Cisco IOS-XE - Fix parsing of interface counters for command `show wireless client mac-address <int> detail`
- Cisco IOS-XE - Fixed parsing for virtual IPv6 addresses in command
  `show standby`
- Cisco IOS-XE - Removed PTP related errors throwing in case `show ptp clock dataset default` does not provide any results
- Cisco IOS-XR - `commands/cisco/isis/neighborsDetail` - fixed parsing
  with different neighbors format.
- Cisco IOS-XR - `commands/cisco/routingProtocols/ipRouteSummaryVrf` -
  fixed parsing with different format.
- Cisco IOS-XR - Exclude parsing of monitor sessions in L2VPNs.
- Cisco IOS-XR - Fix parsing for the command `show bgp all neighbors`
- Cisco IOS, IOS-XE - Fix parsing for command `show subscriber session all`.
- Cisco IOS, IOS-XE, IOS-XR some routes with MPLS label were not used
  correctly even when next hop is known.
- Cisco NX-OS - `show vlan brief` parsing updated to handle error
  message displayed due to Cisco bug CSCvr88898
- Cisco NX-OS - Fix parsing of command `show password strength-check`
- Cisco NX-OS - Fix parsing of ospf state for the command `show ip ospf interface vrf all`.
- Cisco NX-OS - Fixed parsing for negative DHCP snooping values in
  command `show ip dhcp snooping statistics`, probably bug on device.
- Cisco NX-OS - fixed parsing of command `show mac address-table` that
  were containing fabric path SWID.
- Cisco NX-OS - fixed parsing of different output for command `show snmp user`

- Cisco viptela - Fix parsing of uptime from command
  `/device/bfd/sessions?deviceId=`
- F5 Big-IP - added support for IPv6 NTP source addresses in command
  `run util bash -c "ntpq -np"`
- F5 Big-IP - `commands/f5/_big-ip/showSysHardware` - fix parsing
  various sections of command
- F5 Big-IP - Fix parsing of translated ports in command `list /sys sflow receiver all-properties`
- F5 BIG-IP 2000 - Fix parsing if the output of the command `list /sys management-ip` is empty.
- F5 Big-IP - Fix parsing of invalid interfaces for command `show cm device`.
- F5 Big-IP fix prompt detection - add the possibility for "(Sync
  Only)"
- Fortinet FortiGate - Added another parsing option of src-filter for
  command `show firewall VIP`.
- Fortinet FortiGate - Fix parsing for command `show system ha`
- Fortinet FortiGate - Fix parsing for the command `get router info bgp nei`
- Fortinet FortiGate - MAC address on link aggregation interfaces
  could be missing in some cases
- HP 3Com - Fix device detection from `display version` command
- HP 3Com - remove ip address reference from directly connected
  routes.
- HP Comware - Added support for tunnel protocol: UDP_ADVPN/IP.
- HP Comware - Fix parsing for command `display arp`
- HP Comware - Fix parsing for command `display fan`
- HP Comware - Fix parsing of BGP peer instance regex for localID.
- HP Comware - Fix regex splitting of state and age for command
  `display ip routing-table verbose`.
- HP Comware - Fixed parsing of M-Ethernet and TwentyGigE interfaces
- HP Comware - fixed parsing of power supplies from command `display power`
- HP Comware - Fixed parsing of Route-Aggregation interface in the
  command `display interfaces`.
- HP Comware: fix routing relation on own address.
- Juniper - fixed parsing firewall rules - added nonterminating
  actions.
- Juniper JunOS - Add an exception for infinite values while parsing
  the command `show interfaces diagnostics optics`
- Juniper JunOS - `commands/juniper/junos/configurationDisplaySet` -
  added from `dscp`, `ttl`, `is-fragment` (with except actions if
  applicable) action to firewall parsing.
- Juniper JunOS -
  `commands/juniper/_junos/interfacesStatisticsDetail` - fix parsing
  errors on interfaces - added support for a type of output.
- Juniper JunOS - `commands/juniper/_junos/route` - Removed Service to
  routes, unable to resolve next hop for those routes
- Juniper JunOS - Fix parsing of no output from command `show sflow`
- Juniper JunOS - fixed parsing for fans which don't have tray
  information from command `show chassis environment`
- Juniper JunOS - fixed parsing of "null" encryption in command `show security ipsec security-associations detail`
- Juniper JunOS - improved information parsing of deactivated and
  protected configuration
- Juniper JunOS - removed management interfaces with configured ip
  `128.0.0.1/2` or `10.0.0.1/8`
- Juniper JunOS- fixed parsing of command `show interfaces statistics detail` for logical-unit-number larger than 4095
- Palo Alto pan-os -
  `commands/paloalto/showConfigPushedSharedPolicyVsys` - fixed parsing
  of none zone in security rule.
- Palo Alto pan-os - fix services parsing from command `show config merged`
