# Wireless

## Overview

The Wireless Technology section provides information about Wireless
Controllers, Wireless Access Points, and every individual client
connected to the access point.

## Wireless Controllers

The Wireless Controllers table provides an overview of all of the
Wireless Controllers in the network, including the site where the
controller is located, the short name of each controller, the number of
access points registered to the controller, and the total number of
wireless clients connected to the wireless access points which are
registered to a particular controller.

Each controller entry enables the opportunity jump to the details of the
registered wireless access points or to the individual clients connected
to the access points.

## Wireless Access Points

Site shows the name of the site where access point is located;
Controller shows the name of the controller where the AP was found to be
connected to; AP Name shows the host name of the Wireless Access Point;
AP Port is the name of the interface on the Wireless Access Point which
is used to connect to the wired network infrastructure; Switch Hostname
is the name of an edge wired device an AP is connected to; Switch Port
is the name of an interface on an edge wired device that an AP is
connected to; Clients Count is the number of active clients connected to
a particular Wireless Access Point.

Each entry for each wireless access point enables the opportunity to
jump to the wireless client table detailing each client connection.

## Wireless Clients

Site is the name of the site where the Access Point and the Client are
located; AP Name is the hostname of the Wireless Access Point;
Controller is the name of the controller where an AP is registered;
Client MAC is the MAC address of the wireless host, such as a PC,
tablet, phone, or wireless device; Client IP is the IP address of the
wireless host, such as a PC, tablet, phone, or a wireless device;
"In/Out/Bidir bps" is the wireless traffic rate for particular client in
bits per second for inbound/outbound directions or combined for both
directions; "In/Out/Bidir pps" is the wireless traffic rate for a client
in packets per second for inbound and outbound directions or combined
for both directions; Signal Strength is the wireless signal strength in
dB; Signal to Noise Ratio is the wireless signal to noise ratio for the
client in dB; State is the association state of the wireless client;
Policy Manager State is the specific policy manager state of the client.
